This file is a merged representation of the entire codebase, combining all repository files into a single document.
Generated by Repomix on: 2025-04-03T23:36:55.470Z

================================================================
File Summary
================================================================

Purpose:
--------
This file contains a packed representation of the entire repository's contents.
It is designed to be easily consumable by AI systems for analysis, code review,
or other automated processes.

File Format:
------------
The content is organized as follows:
1. This summary section
2. Repository information
3. Directory structure
4. Multiple file entries, each consisting of:
  a. A separator line (================)
  b. The file path (File: path/to/file)
  c. Another separator line
  d. The full contents of the file
  e. A blank line

Usage Guidelines:
-----------------
- This file should be treated as read-only. Any changes should be made to the
  original repository files, not this packed version.
- When processing this file, use the file path to distinguish
  between different files in the repository.
- Be aware that this file may contain sensitive information. Handle it with
  the same level of security as you would the original repository.
- Pay special attention to the Repository Description. These contain important context and guidelines specific to this project.

Notes:
------
- Some files may have been excluded based on .gitignore rules and Repomix's
  configuration.
- Binary files are not included in this packed representation. Please refer to
  the Repository Structure section for a complete list of file paths, including
  binary files.

Additional Info:
----------------
User Provided Header:
-----------------------
UVE repo

For more information about Repomix, visit: https://github.com/yamadashy/repomix

================================================================
Directory Structure
================================================================
.git/
  hooks/
    applypatch-msg.sample
    commit-msg.sample
    fsmonitor-watchman.sample
    post-update.sample
    pre-applypatch.sample
    pre-commit.sample
    pre-merge-commit.sample
    pre-push.sample
    pre-rebase.sample
    pre-receive.sample
    prepare-commit-msg.sample
    push-to-checkout.sample
    sendemail-validate.sample
    update.sample
  info/
    exclude
  refs/
    heads/
      main
    remotes/
      origin/
        HEAD
        main
  COMMIT_EDITMSG
  config
  description
  FETCH_HEAD
  HEAD
  ORIG_HEAD
  packed-refs
src/
  core/
    uve-core.js
  examples/
    foaf-example.js
  renderers/
    class-sphere-renderer.js
tests/
  uve-tests.js
.gitignore
jsdoc-config.json
LICENSE
package.json
README.md
repomix.config.json
uve-core.js
vanilla-core-js.js
vanilla-foaf-js.js

================================================================
Files
================================================================

================
File: .git/hooks/applypatch-msg.sample
================
#!/bin/sh
#
# An example hook script to check the commit log message taken by
# applypatch from an e-mail message.
#
# The hook should exit with non-zero status after issuing an
# appropriate message if it wants to stop the commit.  The hook is
# allowed to edit the commit message file.
#
# To enable this hook, rename this file to "applypatch-msg".

. git-sh-setup
commitmsg="$(git rev-parse --git-path hooks/commit-msg)"
test -x "$commitmsg" && exec "$commitmsg" ${1+"$@"}
:

================
File: .git/hooks/commit-msg.sample
================
#!/bin/sh
#
# An example hook script to check the commit log message.
# Called by "git commit" with one argument, the name of the file
# that has the commit message.  The hook should exit with non-zero
# status after issuing an appropriate message if it wants to stop the
# commit.  The hook is allowed to edit the commit message file.
#
# To enable this hook, rename this file to "commit-msg".

# Uncomment the below to add a Signed-off-by line to the message.
# Doing this in a hook is a bad idea in general, but the prepare-commit-msg
# hook is more suited to it.
#
# SOB=$(git var GIT_AUTHOR_IDENT | sed -n 's/^\(.*>\).*$/Signed-off-by: \1/p')
# grep -qs "^$SOB" "$1" || echo "$SOB" >> "$1"

# This example catches duplicate Signed-off-by lines.

test "" = "$(grep '^Signed-off-by: ' "$1" |
	 sort | uniq -c | sed -e '/^[ 	]*1[ 	]/d')" || {
	echo >&2 Duplicate Signed-off-by lines.
	exit 1
}

================
File: .git/hooks/fsmonitor-watchman.sample
================
#!/usr/bin/perl

use strict;
use warnings;
use IPC::Open2;

# An example hook script to integrate Watchman
# (https://facebook.github.io/watchman/) with git to speed up detecting
# new and modified files.
#
# The hook is passed a version (currently 2) and last update token
# formatted as a string and outputs to stdout a new update token and
# all files that have been modified since the update token. Paths must
# be relative to the root of the working tree and separated by a single NUL.
#
# To enable this hook, rename this file to "query-watchman" and set
# 'git config core.fsmonitor .git/hooks/query-watchman'
#
my ($version, $last_update_token) = @ARGV;

# Uncomment for debugging
# print STDERR "$0 $version $last_update_token\n";

# Check the hook interface version
if ($version ne 2) {
	die "Unsupported query-fsmonitor hook version '$version'.\n" .
	    "Falling back to scanning...\n";
}

my $git_work_tree = get_working_dir();

my $retry = 1;

my $json_pkg;
eval {
	require JSON::XS;
	$json_pkg = "JSON::XS";
	1;
} or do {
	require JSON::PP;
	$json_pkg = "JSON::PP";
};

launch_watchman();

sub launch_watchman {
	my $o = watchman_query();
	if (is_work_tree_watched($o)) {
		output_result($o->{clock}, @{$o->{files}});
	}
}

sub output_result {
	my ($clockid, @files) = @_;

	# Uncomment for debugging watchman output
	# open (my $fh, ">", ".git/watchman-output.out");
	# binmode $fh, ":utf8";
	# print $fh "$clockid\n@files\n";
	# close $fh;

	binmode STDOUT, ":utf8";
	print $clockid;
	print "\0";
	local $, = "\0";
	print @files;
}

sub watchman_clock {
	my $response = qx/watchman clock "$git_work_tree"/;
	die "Failed to get clock id on '$git_work_tree'.\n" .
		"Falling back to scanning...\n" if $? != 0;

	return $json_pkg->new->utf8->decode($response);
}

sub watchman_query {
	my $pid = open2(\*CHLD_OUT, \*CHLD_IN, 'watchman -j --no-pretty')
	or die "open2() failed: $!\n" .
	"Falling back to scanning...\n";

	# In the query expression below we're asking for names of files that
	# changed since $last_update_token but not from the .git folder.
	#
	# To accomplish this, we're using the "since" generator to use the
	# recency index to select candidate nodes and "fields" to limit the
	# output to file names only. Then we're using the "expression" term to
	# further constrain the results.
	my $last_update_line = "";
	if (substr($last_update_token, 0, 1) eq "c") {
		$last_update_token = "\"$last_update_token\"";
		$last_update_line = qq[\n"since": $last_update_token,];
	}
	my $query = <<"	END";
		["query", "$git_work_tree", {$last_update_line
			"fields": ["name"],
			"expression": ["not", ["dirname", ".git"]]
		}]
	END

	# Uncomment for debugging the watchman query
	# open (my $fh, ">", ".git/watchman-query.json");
	# print $fh $query;
	# close $fh;

	print CHLD_IN $query;
	close CHLD_IN;
	my $response = do {local $/; <CHLD_OUT>};

	# Uncomment for debugging the watch response
	# open ($fh, ">", ".git/watchman-response.json");
	# print $fh $response;
	# close $fh;

	die "Watchman: command returned no output.\n" .
	"Falling back to scanning...\n" if $response eq "";
	die "Watchman: command returned invalid output: $response\n" .
	"Falling back to scanning...\n" unless $response =~ /^\{/;

	return $json_pkg->new->utf8->decode($response);
}

sub is_work_tree_watched {
	my ($output) = @_;
	my $error = $output->{error};
	if ($retry > 0 and $error and $error =~ m/unable to resolve root .* directory (.*) is not watched/) {
		$retry--;
		my $response = qx/watchman watch "$git_work_tree"/;
		die "Failed to make watchman watch '$git_work_tree'.\n" .
		    "Falling back to scanning...\n" if $? != 0;
		$output = $json_pkg->new->utf8->decode($response);
		$error = $output->{error};
		die "Watchman: $error.\n" .
		"Falling back to scanning...\n" if $error;

		# Uncomment for debugging watchman output
		# open (my $fh, ">", ".git/watchman-output.out");
		# close $fh;

		# Watchman will always return all files on the first query so
		# return the fast "everything is dirty" flag to git and do the
		# Watchman query just to get it over with now so we won't pay
		# the cost in git to look up each individual file.
		my $o = watchman_clock();
		$error = $output->{error};

		die "Watchman: $error.\n" .
		"Falling back to scanning...\n" if $error;

		output_result($o->{clock}, ("/"));
		$last_update_token = $o->{clock};

		eval { launch_watchman() };
		return 0;
	}

	die "Watchman: $error.\n" .
	"Falling back to scanning...\n" if $error;

	return 1;
}

sub get_working_dir {
	my $working_dir;
	if ($^O =~ 'msys' || $^O =~ 'cygwin') {
		$working_dir = Win32::GetCwd();
		$working_dir =~ tr/\\/\//;
	} else {
		require Cwd;
		$working_dir = Cwd::cwd();
	}

	return $working_dir;
}

================
File: .git/hooks/post-update.sample
================
#!/bin/sh
#
# An example hook script to prepare a packed repository for use over
# dumb transports.
#
# To enable this hook, rename this file to "post-update".

exec git update-server-info

================
File: .git/hooks/pre-applypatch.sample
================
#!/bin/sh
#
# An example hook script to verify what is about to be committed
# by applypatch from an e-mail message.
#
# The hook should exit with non-zero status after issuing an
# appropriate message if it wants to stop the commit.
#
# To enable this hook, rename this file to "pre-applypatch".

. git-sh-setup
precommit="$(git rev-parse --git-path hooks/pre-commit)"
test -x "$precommit" && exec "$precommit" ${1+"$@"}
:

================
File: .git/hooks/pre-commit.sample
================
#!/bin/sh
#
# An example hook script to verify what is about to be committed.
# Called by "git commit" with no arguments.  The hook should
# exit with non-zero status after issuing an appropriate message if
# it wants to stop the commit.
#
# To enable this hook, rename this file to "pre-commit".

if git rev-parse --verify HEAD >/dev/null 2>&1
then
	against=HEAD
else
	# Initial commit: diff against an empty tree object
	against=$(git hash-object -t tree /dev/null)
fi

# If you want to allow non-ASCII filenames set this variable to true.
allownonascii=$(git config --type=bool hooks.allownonascii)

# Redirect output to stderr.
exec 1>&2

# Cross platform projects tend to avoid non-ASCII filenames; prevent
# them from being added to the repository. We exploit the fact that the
# printable range starts at the space character and ends with tilde.
if [ "$allownonascii" != "true" ] &&
	# Note that the use of brackets around a tr range is ok here, (it's
	# even required, for portability to Solaris 10's /usr/bin/tr), since
	# the square bracket bytes happen to fall in the designated range.
	test $(git diff --cached --name-only --diff-filter=A -z $against |
	  LC_ALL=C tr -d '[ -~]\0' | wc -c) != 0
then
	cat <<\EOF
Error: Attempt to add a non-ASCII file name.

This can cause problems if you want to work with people on other platforms.

To be portable it is advisable to rename the file.

If you know what you are doing you can disable this check using:

  git config hooks.allownonascii true
EOF
	exit 1
fi

# If there are whitespace errors, print the offending file names and fail.
exec git diff-index --check --cached $against --

================
File: .git/hooks/pre-merge-commit.sample
================
#!/bin/sh
#
# An example hook script to verify what is about to be committed.
# Called by "git merge" with no arguments.  The hook should
# exit with non-zero status after issuing an appropriate message to
# stderr if it wants to stop the merge commit.
#
# To enable this hook, rename this file to "pre-merge-commit".

. git-sh-setup
test -x "$GIT_DIR/hooks/pre-commit" &&
        exec "$GIT_DIR/hooks/pre-commit"
:

================
File: .git/hooks/pre-push.sample
================
#!/bin/sh

# An example hook script to verify what is about to be pushed.  Called by "git
# push" after it has checked the remote status, but before anything has been
# pushed.  If this script exits with a non-zero status nothing will be pushed.
#
# This hook is called with the following parameters:
#
# $1 -- Name of the remote to which the push is being done
# $2 -- URL to which the push is being done
#
# If pushing without using a named remote those arguments will be equal.
#
# Information about the commits which are being pushed is supplied as lines to
# the standard input in the form:
#
#   <local ref> <local oid> <remote ref> <remote oid>
#
# This sample shows how to prevent push of commits where the log message starts
# with "WIP" (work in progress).

remote="$1"
url="$2"

zero=$(git hash-object --stdin </dev/null | tr '[0-9a-f]' '0')

while read local_ref local_oid remote_ref remote_oid
do
	if test "$local_oid" = "$zero"
	then
		# Handle delete
		:
	else
		if test "$remote_oid" = "$zero"
		then
			# New branch, examine all commits
			range="$local_oid"
		else
			# Update to existing branch, examine new commits
			range="$remote_oid..$local_oid"
		fi

		# Check for WIP commit
		commit=$(git rev-list -n 1 --grep '^WIP' "$range")
		if test -n "$commit"
		then
			echo >&2 "Found WIP commit in $local_ref, not pushing"
			exit 1
		fi
	fi
done

exit 0

================
File: .git/hooks/pre-rebase.sample
================
#!/bin/sh
#
# Copyright (c) 2006, 2008 Junio C Hamano
#
# The "pre-rebase" hook is run just before "git rebase" starts doing
# its job, and can prevent the command from running by exiting with
# non-zero status.
#
# The hook is called with the following parameters:
#
# $1 -- the upstream the series was forked from.
# $2 -- the branch being rebased (or empty when rebasing the current branch).
#
# This sample shows how to prevent topic branches that are already
# merged to 'next' branch from getting rebased, because allowing it
# would result in rebasing already published history.

publish=next
basebranch="$1"
if test "$#" = 2
then
	topic="refs/heads/$2"
else
	topic=`git symbolic-ref HEAD` ||
	exit 0 ;# we do not interrupt rebasing detached HEAD
fi

case "$topic" in
refs/heads/??/*)
	;;
*)
	exit 0 ;# we do not interrupt others.
	;;
esac

# Now we are dealing with a topic branch being rebased
# on top of master.  Is it OK to rebase it?

# Does the topic really exist?
git show-ref -q "$topic" || {
	echo >&2 "No such branch $topic"
	exit 1
}

# Is topic fully merged to master?
not_in_master=`git rev-list --pretty=oneline ^master "$topic"`
if test -z "$not_in_master"
then
	echo >&2 "$topic is fully merged to master; better remove it."
	exit 1 ;# we could allow it, but there is no point.
fi

# Is topic ever merged to next?  If so you should not be rebasing it.
only_next_1=`git rev-list ^master "^$topic" ${publish} | sort`
only_next_2=`git rev-list ^master           ${publish} | sort`
if test "$only_next_1" = "$only_next_2"
then
	not_in_topic=`git rev-list "^$topic" master`
	if test -z "$not_in_topic"
	then
		echo >&2 "$topic is already up to date with master"
		exit 1 ;# we could allow it, but there is no point.
	else
		exit 0
	fi
else
	not_in_next=`git rev-list --pretty=oneline ^${publish} "$topic"`
	/usr/bin/perl -e '
		my $topic = $ARGV[0];
		my $msg = "* $topic has commits already merged to public branch:\n";
		my (%not_in_next) = map {
			/^([0-9a-f]+) /;
			($1 => 1);
		} split(/\n/, $ARGV[1]);
		for my $elem (map {
				/^([0-9a-f]+) (.*)$/;
				[$1 => $2];
			} split(/\n/, $ARGV[2])) {
			if (!exists $not_in_next{$elem->[0]}) {
				if ($msg) {
					print STDERR $msg;
					undef $msg;
				}
				print STDERR " $elem->[1]\n";
			}
		}
	' "$topic" "$not_in_next" "$not_in_master"
	exit 1
fi

<<\DOC_END

This sample hook safeguards topic branches that have been
published from being rewound.

The workflow assumed here is:

 * Once a topic branch forks from "master", "master" is never
   merged into it again (either directly or indirectly).

 * Once a topic branch is fully cooked and merged into "master",
   it is deleted.  If you need to build on top of it to correct
   earlier mistakes, a new topic branch is created by forking at
   the tip of the "master".  This is not strictly necessary, but
   it makes it easier to keep your history simple.

 * Whenever you need to test or publish your changes to topic
   branches, merge them into "next" branch.

The script, being an example, hardcodes the publish branch name
to be "next", but it is trivial to make it configurable via
$GIT_DIR/config mechanism.

With this workflow, you would want to know:

(1) ... if a topic branch has ever been merged to "next".  Young
    topic branches can have stupid mistakes you would rather
    clean up before publishing, and things that have not been
    merged into other branches can be easily rebased without
    affecting other people.  But once it is published, you would
    not want to rewind it.

(2) ... if a topic branch has been fully merged to "master".
    Then you can delete it.  More importantly, you should not
    build on top of it -- other people may already want to
    change things related to the topic as patches against your
    "master", so if you need further changes, it is better to
    fork the topic (perhaps with the same name) afresh from the
    tip of "master".

Let's look at this example:

		   o---o---o---o---o---o---o---o---o---o "next"
		  /       /           /           /
		 /   a---a---b A     /           /
		/   /               /           /
	       /   /   c---c---c---c B         /
	      /   /   /             \         /
	     /   /   /   b---b C     \       /
	    /   /   /   /             \     /
    ---o---o---o---o---o---o---o---o---o---o---o "master"


A, B and C are topic branches.

 * A has one fix since it was merged up to "next".

 * B has finished.  It has been fully merged up to "master" and "next",
   and is ready to be deleted.

 * C has not merged to "next" at all.

We would want to allow C to be rebased, refuse A, and encourage
B to be deleted.

To compute (1):

	git rev-list ^master ^topic next
	git rev-list ^master        next

	if these match, topic has not merged in next at all.

To compute (2):

	git rev-list master..topic

	if this is empty, it is fully merged to "master".

DOC_END

================
File: .git/hooks/pre-receive.sample
================
#!/bin/sh
#
# An example hook script to make use of push options.
# The example simply echoes all push options that start with 'echoback='
# and rejects all pushes when the "reject" push option is used.
#
# To enable this hook, rename this file to "pre-receive".

if test -n "$GIT_PUSH_OPTION_COUNT"
then
	i=0
	while test "$i" -lt "$GIT_PUSH_OPTION_COUNT"
	do
		eval "value=\$GIT_PUSH_OPTION_$i"
		case "$value" in
		echoback=*)
			echo "echo from the pre-receive-hook: ${value#*=}" >&2
			;;
		reject)
			exit 1
		esac
		i=$((i + 1))
	done
fi

================
File: .git/hooks/prepare-commit-msg.sample
================
#!/bin/sh
#
# An example hook script to prepare the commit log message.
# Called by "git commit" with the name of the file that has the
# commit message, followed by the description of the commit
# message's source.  The hook's purpose is to edit the commit
# message file.  If the hook fails with a non-zero status,
# the commit is aborted.
#
# To enable this hook, rename this file to "prepare-commit-msg".

# This hook includes three examples. The first one removes the
# "# Please enter the commit message..." help message.
#
# The second includes the output of "git diff --name-status -r"
# into the message, just before the "git status" output.  It is
# commented because it doesn't cope with --amend or with squashed
# commits.
#
# The third example adds a Signed-off-by line to the message, that can
# still be edited.  This is rarely a good idea.

COMMIT_MSG_FILE=$1
COMMIT_SOURCE=$2
SHA1=$3

/usr/bin/perl -i.bak -ne 'print unless(m/^. Please enter the commit message/..m/^#$/)' "$COMMIT_MSG_FILE"

# case "$COMMIT_SOURCE,$SHA1" in
#  ,|template,)
#    /usr/bin/perl -i.bak -pe '
#       print "\n" . `git diff --cached --name-status -r`
# 	 if /^#/ && $first++ == 0' "$COMMIT_MSG_FILE" ;;
#  *) ;;
# esac

# SOB=$(git var GIT_COMMITTER_IDENT | sed -n 's/^\(.*>\).*$/Signed-off-by: \1/p')
# git interpret-trailers --in-place --trailer "$SOB" "$COMMIT_MSG_FILE"
# if test -z "$COMMIT_SOURCE"
# then
#   /usr/bin/perl -i.bak -pe 'print "\n" if !$first_line++' "$COMMIT_MSG_FILE"
# fi

================
File: .git/hooks/push-to-checkout.sample
================
#!/bin/sh

# An example hook script to update a checked-out tree on a git push.
#
# This hook is invoked by git-receive-pack(1) when it reacts to git
# push and updates reference(s) in its repository, and when the push
# tries to update the branch that is currently checked out and the
# receive.denyCurrentBranch configuration variable is set to
# updateInstead.
#
# By default, such a push is refused if the working tree and the index
# of the remote repository has any difference from the currently
# checked out commit; when both the working tree and the index match
# the current commit, they are updated to match the newly pushed tip
# of the branch. This hook is to be used to override the default
# behaviour; however the code below reimplements the default behaviour
# as a starting point for convenient modification.
#
# The hook receives the commit with which the tip of the current
# branch is going to be updated:
commit=$1

# It can exit with a non-zero status to refuse the push (when it does
# so, it must not modify the index or the working tree).
die () {
	echo >&2 "$*"
	exit 1
}

# Or it can make any necessary changes to the working tree and to the
# index to bring them to the desired state when the tip of the current
# branch is updated to the new commit, and exit with a zero status.
#
# For example, the hook can simply run git read-tree -u -m HEAD "$1"
# in order to emulate git fetch that is run in the reverse direction
# with git push, as the two-tree form of git read-tree -u -m is
# essentially the same as git switch or git checkout that switches
# branches while keeping the local changes in the working tree that do
# not interfere with the difference between the branches.

# The below is a more-or-less exact translation to shell of the C code
# for the default behaviour for git's push-to-checkout hook defined in
# the push_to_deploy() function in builtin/receive-pack.c.
#
# Note that the hook will be executed from the repository directory,
# not from the working tree, so if you want to perform operations on
# the working tree, you will have to adapt your code accordingly, e.g.
# by adding "cd .." or using relative paths.

if ! git update-index -q --ignore-submodules --refresh
then
	die "Up-to-date check failed"
fi

if ! git diff-files --quiet --ignore-submodules --
then
	die "Working directory has unstaged changes"
fi

# This is a rough translation of:
#
#   head_has_history() ? "HEAD" : EMPTY_TREE_SHA1_HEX
if git cat-file -e HEAD 2>/dev/null
then
	head=HEAD
else
	head=$(git hash-object -t tree --stdin </dev/null)
fi

if ! git diff-index --quiet --cached --ignore-submodules $head --
then
	die "Working directory has staged changes"
fi

if ! git read-tree -u -m "$commit"
then
	die "Could not update working tree to new HEAD"
fi

================
File: .git/hooks/sendemail-validate.sample
================
#!/bin/sh

# An example hook script to validate a patch (and/or patch series) before
# sending it via email.
#
# The hook should exit with non-zero status after issuing an appropriate
# message if it wants to prevent the email(s) from being sent.
#
# To enable this hook, rename this file to "sendemail-validate".
#
# By default, it will only check that the patch(es) can be applied on top of
# the default upstream branch without conflicts in a secondary worktree. After
# validation (successful or not) of the last patch of a series, the worktree
# will be deleted.
#
# The following config variables can be set to change the default remote and
# remote ref that are used to apply the patches against:
#
#   sendemail.validateRemote (default: origin)
#   sendemail.validateRemoteRef (default: HEAD)
#
# Replace the TODO placeholders with appropriate checks according to your
# needs.

validate_cover_letter () {
	file="$1"
	# TODO: Replace with appropriate checks (e.g. spell checking).
	true
}

validate_patch () {
	file="$1"
	# Ensure that the patch applies without conflicts.
	git am -3 "$file" || return
	# TODO: Replace with appropriate checks for this patch
	# (e.g. checkpatch.pl).
	true
}

validate_series () {
	# TODO: Replace with appropriate checks for the whole series
	# (e.g. quick build, coding style checks, etc.).
	true
}

# main -------------------------------------------------------------------------

if test "$GIT_SENDEMAIL_FILE_COUNTER" = 1
then
	remote=$(git config --default origin --get sendemail.validateRemote) &&
	ref=$(git config --default HEAD --get sendemail.validateRemoteRef) &&
	worktree=$(mktemp --tmpdir -d sendemail-validate.XXXXXXX) &&
	git worktree add -fd --checkout "$worktree" "refs/remotes/$remote/$ref" &&
	git config --replace-all sendemail.validateWorktree "$worktree"
else
	worktree=$(git config --get sendemail.validateWorktree)
fi || {
	echo "sendemail-validate: error: failed to prepare worktree" >&2
	exit 1
}

unset GIT_DIR GIT_WORK_TREE
cd "$worktree" &&

if grep -q "^diff --git " "$1"
then
	validate_patch "$1"
else
	validate_cover_letter "$1"
fi &&

if test "$GIT_SENDEMAIL_FILE_COUNTER" = "$GIT_SENDEMAIL_FILE_TOTAL"
then
	git config --unset-all sendemail.validateWorktree &&
	trap 'git worktree remove -ff "$worktree"' EXIT &&
	validate_series
fi

================
File: .git/hooks/update.sample
================
#!/bin/sh
#
# An example hook script to block unannotated tags from entering.
# Called by "git receive-pack" with arguments: refname sha1-old sha1-new
#
# To enable this hook, rename this file to "update".
#
# Config
# ------
# hooks.allowunannotated
#   This boolean sets whether unannotated tags will be allowed into the
#   repository.  By default they won't be.
# hooks.allowdeletetag
#   This boolean sets whether deleting tags will be allowed in the
#   repository.  By default they won't be.
# hooks.allowmodifytag
#   This boolean sets whether a tag may be modified after creation. By default
#   it won't be.
# hooks.allowdeletebranch
#   This boolean sets whether deleting branches will be allowed in the
#   repository.  By default they won't be.
# hooks.denycreatebranch
#   This boolean sets whether remotely creating branches will be denied
#   in the repository.  By default this is allowed.
#

# --- Command line
refname="$1"
oldrev="$2"
newrev="$3"

# --- Safety check
if [ -z "$GIT_DIR" ]; then
	echo "Don't run this script from the command line." >&2
	echo " (if you want, you could supply GIT_DIR then run" >&2
	echo "  $0 <ref> <oldrev> <newrev>)" >&2
	exit 1
fi

if [ -z "$refname" -o -z "$oldrev" -o -z "$newrev" ]; then
	echo "usage: $0 <ref> <oldrev> <newrev>" >&2
	exit 1
fi

# --- Config
allowunannotated=$(git config --type=bool hooks.allowunannotated)
allowdeletebranch=$(git config --type=bool hooks.allowdeletebranch)
denycreatebranch=$(git config --type=bool hooks.denycreatebranch)
allowdeletetag=$(git config --type=bool hooks.allowdeletetag)
allowmodifytag=$(git config --type=bool hooks.allowmodifytag)

# check for no description
projectdesc=$(sed -e '1q' "$GIT_DIR/description")
case "$projectdesc" in
"Unnamed repository"* | "")
	echo "*** Project description file hasn't been set" >&2
	exit 1
	;;
esac

# --- Check types
# if $newrev is 0000...0000, it's a commit to delete a ref.
zero=$(git hash-object --stdin </dev/null | tr '[0-9a-f]' '0')
if [ "$newrev" = "$zero" ]; then
	newrev_type=delete
else
	newrev_type=$(git cat-file -t $newrev)
fi

case "$refname","$newrev_type" in
	refs/tags/*,commit)
		# un-annotated tag
		short_refname=${refname##refs/tags/}
		if [ "$allowunannotated" != "true" ]; then
			echo "*** The un-annotated tag, $short_refname, is not allowed in this repository" >&2
			echo "*** Use 'git tag [ -a | -s ]' for tags you want to propagate." >&2
			exit 1
		fi
		;;
	refs/tags/*,delete)
		# delete tag
		if [ "$allowdeletetag" != "true" ]; then
			echo "*** Deleting a tag is not allowed in this repository" >&2
			exit 1
		fi
		;;
	refs/tags/*,tag)
		# annotated tag
		if [ "$allowmodifytag" != "true" ] && git rev-parse $refname > /dev/null 2>&1
		then
			echo "*** Tag '$refname' already exists." >&2
			echo "*** Modifying a tag is not allowed in this repository." >&2
			exit 1
		fi
		;;
	refs/heads/*,commit)
		# branch
		if [ "$oldrev" = "$zero" -a "$denycreatebranch" = "true" ]; then
			echo "*** Creating a branch is not allowed in this repository" >&2
			exit 1
		fi
		;;
	refs/heads/*,delete)
		# delete branch
		if [ "$allowdeletebranch" != "true" ]; then
			echo "*** Deleting a branch is not allowed in this repository" >&2
			exit 1
		fi
		;;
	refs/remotes/*,commit)
		# tracking branch
		;;
	refs/remotes/*,delete)
		# delete tracking branch
		if [ "$allowdeletebranch" != "true" ]; then
			echo "*** Deleting a tracking branch is not allowed in this repository" >&2
			exit 1
		fi
		;;
	*)
		# Anything else (is there anything else?)
		echo "*** Update hook: unknown type of update to ref $refname of type $newrev_type" >&2
		exit 1
		;;
esac

# --- Finished
exit 0

================
File: .git/info/exclude
================
# git ls-files --others --exclude-from=.git/info/exclude
# Lines that start with '#' are comments.
# For a project mostly in C, the following would be a good set of
# exclude patterns (uncomment them if you want to use them):
# *.[oa]
# *~

================
File: .git/refs/heads/main
================
28ebc77f5faf7a0f99a8173eb0f6395214e76afa

================
File: .git/refs/remotes/origin/HEAD
================
ref: refs/remotes/origin/main

================
File: .git/refs/remotes/origin/main
================
28ebc77f5faf7a0f99a8173eb0f6395214e76afa

================
File: .git/COMMIT_EDITMSG
================
claude nonsense

================
File: .git/config
================
[core]
	repositoryformatversion = 0
	filemode = true
	bare = false
	logallrefupdates = true
[remote "origin"]
	url = https://github.com/danja/uve.git
	fetch = +refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/origin/*
[branch "main"]
	remote = origin
	merge = refs/heads/main
	vscode-merge-base = origin/main

================
File: .git/description
================
Unnamed repository; edit this file 'description' to name the repository.

================
File: .git/FETCH_HEAD
================
28ebc77f5faf7a0f99a8173eb0f6395214e76afa		branch 'main' of https://github.com/danja/uve

================
File: .git/HEAD
================
ref: refs/heads/main

================
File: .git/ORIG_HEAD
================
28ebc77f5faf7a0f99a8173eb0f6395214e76afa

================
File: .git/packed-refs
================
# pack-refs with: peeled fully-peeled sorted 
cad771f4b0ea3496ebb4178f07d7a636d2904b40 refs/remotes/origin/main

================
File: src/core/uve-core.js
================
/**
 * @fileoverview UVE core architecture implementation
 * @module uve/core
 */

/**
 * Base class for all UVE event types
 * @class UVEEvent
 */
export class UVEEvent {
  /**
   * Create a new UVE event
   * @param {string} type - The event type
   * @param {Object} data - Event data
   */
  constructor(type, data = {}) {
    this.type = type;
    this.data = data;
    this.timestamp = Date.now();
  }
}

/**
 * Event bus for UVE system-wide messaging
 * @class EventBus
 */
export class EventBus {
  constructor() {
    this.subscribers = new Map();
  }

  /**
   * Subscribe to events of a specific type
   * @param {string} eventType - Type of event to subscribe to
   * @param {Function} callback - Function to call when event occurs
   * @returns {Function} Unsubscribe function
   */
  subscribe(eventType, callback) {
    if (!this.subscribers.has(eventType)) {
      this.subscribers.set(eventType, new Set());
    }
    
    this.subscribers.get(eventType).add(callback);
    
    // Return unsubscribe function
    return () => {
      const subs = this.subscribers.get(eventType);
      if (subs) {
        subs.delete(callback);
        if (subs.size === 0) {
          this.subscribers.delete(eventType);
        }
      }
    };
  }

  /**
   * Publish an event to all subscribers
   * @param {UVEEvent} event - The event to publish
   */
  publish(event) {
    const subs = this.subscribers.get(event.type);
    if (subs) {
      subs.forEach(callback => {
        try {
          callback(event);
        } catch (error) {
          console.error(`Error in event handler for ${event.type}:`, error);
        }
      });
    }
  }
}

/**
 * Base class for all model objects
 * @class ModelObject
 */
export class ModelObject {
  /**
   * Create a new model object
   * @param {EventBus} eventBus - The system event bus
   * @param {string} id - Unique identifier for this object
   */
  constructor(eventBus, id) {
    this.eventBus = eventBus;
    this.id = id;
    this.properties = new Map();
  }

  /**
   * Get a property value
   * @param {string} key - Property name
   * @param {*} defaultValue - Default value if property doesn't exist
   * @returns {*} Property value
   */
  get(key, defaultValue = null) {
    return this.properties.has(key) ? this.properties.get(key) : defaultValue;
  }

  /**
   * Set a property value and notify subscribers
   * @param {string} key - Property name
   * @param {*} value - Property value
   * @fires ModelPropertyChangeEvent
   */
  set(key, value) {
    const oldValue = this.get(key);
    this.properties.set(key, value);
    
    this.eventBus.publish(new UVEEvent('model:property:change', {
      modelId: this.id,
      property: key,
      oldValue,
      newValue: value
    }));
  }
}

/**
 * RDF Model Manager for loading and manipulating RDF data
 * @class RDFModelManager
 */
export class RDFModelManager {
  /**
   * Create a new RDF Model Manager
   * @param {EventBus} eventBus - The system event bus
   * @param {Object} rdf - RDF-Ext instance
   */
  constructor(eventBus, rdf) {
    this.eventBus = eventBus;
    this.rdf = rdf;
    this.dataset = rdf.dataset();
    this.classMap = new Map();
    
    // Subscribe to relevant events
    this.eventBus.subscribe('rdf:load', this.handleLoad.bind(this));
  }

  /**
   * Handle RDF load events
   * @param {UVEEvent} event - Load event
   * @private
   */
  handleLoad(event) {
    const { url, format } = event.data;
    this.loadFromUrl(url, format);
  }

  /**
   * Load RDF data from a URL
   * @param {string} url - URL to load from
   * @param {string} format - RDF format (e.g., 'text/turtle')
   * @returns {Promise<void>}
   */
  async loadFromUrl(url, format = 'text/turtle') {
    try {
      const dataset = await this.rdf.io.dataset.fromURL(url);
      this.setDataset(dataset);
      
      this.eventBus.publish(new UVEEvent('rdf:loaded', {
        source: url,
        size: dataset.size
      }));
    } catch (error) {
      this.eventBus.publish(new UVEEvent('rdf:error', {
        source: url,
        error: error.message
      }));
    }
  }

  /**
   * Set the current dataset
   * @param {Object} dataset - RDF-Ext dataset
   */
  setDataset(dataset) {
    this.dataset = dataset;
    this.extractClasses();
  }

  /**
   * Extract class definitions from the dataset
   * @private
   */
  extractClasses() {
    const ns = {
      rdf: this.rdf.namespace('http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#'),
      rdfs: this.rdf.namespace('http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#'),
      owl: this.rdf.namespace('http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#')
    };
    
    // Find all classes (instances of rdfs:Class or owl:Class)
    const classes = this.rdf.grapoi({ dataset: this.dataset })
      .has(ns.rdf.type, ns.rdfs.Class)
      .addUnion()
      .has(ns.rdf.type, ns.owl.Class)
      .distinct()
      .terms;
    
    // Clear existing class map
    this.classMap.clear();
    
    // Process each class
    classes.forEach(classTerm => {
      const classId = classTerm.value;
      const label = this.getLabel(classTerm);
      
      // Get parent classes
      const parents = this.rdf.grapoi({ dataset: this.dataset, term: classTerm })
        .out(ns.rdfs.subClassOf)
        .terms;
      
      // Create class model object
      const classObj = new ModelObject(this.eventBus, classId);
      classObj.set('label', label);
      classObj.set('uri', classId);
      classObj.set('parents', parents.map(p => p.value));
      
      this.classMap.set(classId, classObj);
    });
    
    // Notify that classes have been extracted
    this.eventBus.publish(new UVEEvent('rdf:classes:extracted', {
      count: this.classMap.size
    }));
  }

  /**
   * Get a readable label for an RDF term
   * @param {Object} term - RDF-Ext term
   * @returns {string} Label
   * @private
   */
  getLabel(term) {
    const ns = {
      rdfs: this.rdf.namespace('http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#')
    };
    
    // Try to get rdfs:label
    const labels = this.rdf.grapoi({ dataset: this.dataset, term })
      .out(ns.rdfs.label)
      .values;
    
    if (labels.length > 0) {
      return labels[0];
    }
    
    // Fallback to the local part of the URI
    const uri = term.value;
    const localName = uri.split(/[#/]/).pop();
    
    return localName;
  }

  /**
   * Get all class definitions
   * @returns {Array<ModelObject>} Class definitions
   */
  getClasses() {
    return Array.from(this.classMap.values());
  }
}

/**
 * View base class
 * @class View
 */
export class View {
  /**
   * Create a new view
   * @param {EventBus} eventBus - The system event bus
   * @param {string} id - View identifier
   */
  constructor(eventBus, id) {
    this.eventBus = eventBus;
    this.id = id;
    this.subscriptions = [];
  }

  /**
   * Initialize the view
   * @returns {void}
   */
  initialize() {
    // To be implemented by subclasses
  }

  /**
   * Subscribe to an event
   * @param {string} eventType - Type of event
   * @param {Function} callback - Callback function
   * @protected
   */
  subscribeToEvent(eventType, callback) {
    const unsubscribe = this.eventBus.subscribe(eventType, callback);
    this.subscriptions.push(unsubscribe);
  }

  /**
   * Clean up all subscriptions
   */
  dispose() {
    this.subscriptions.forEach(unsubscribe => unsubscribe());
    this.subscriptions = [];
  }
}

/**
 * Three.js view for 3D visualization
 * @class ThreeJsView
 * @extends View
 */
export class ThreeJsView extends View {
  /**
   * Create a new Three.js view
   * @param {EventBus} eventBus - The system event bus
   * @param {Object} three - Three.js instance
   * @param {HTMLElement} container - DOM container for the renderer
   */
  constructor(eventBus, three, container) {
    super(eventBus, 'three-js-view');
    this.three = three;
    this.container = container;
    this.scene = null;
    this.camera = null;
    this.renderer = null;
    this.controls = null;
    this.classObjects = new Map();
  }

  /**
   * Initialize the Three.js scene
   * @override
   */
  initialize() {
    // Create scene
    this.scene = new this.three.Scene();
    this.scene.background = new this.three.Color(0xf0f0f0);
    
    // Create camera
    this.camera = new this.three.PerspectiveCamera(
      75, 
      this.container.clientWidth / this.container.clientHeight,
      0.1,
      1000
    );
    this.camera.position.z = 10;
    
    // Create renderer
    this.renderer = new this.three.WebGLRenderer({ antialias: true });
    this.renderer.setSize(this.container.clientWidth, this.container.clientHeight);
    this.container.appendChild(this.renderer.domElement);
    
    // Add orbit controls
    this.controls = new this.three.OrbitControls(
      this.camera,
      this.renderer.domElement
    );
    this.controls.enableDamping = true;
    
    // Add ambient light
    const ambientLight = new this.three.AmbientLight(0x404040);
    this.scene.add(ambientLight);
    
    // Add directional light
    const directionalLight = new this.three.DirectionalLight(0xffffff, 0.5);
    directionalLight.position.set(1, 1, 1);
    this.scene.add(directionalLight);
    
    // Subscribe to relevant events
    this.subscribeToEvent('rdf:classes:extracted', this.handleClassesExtracted.bind(this));
    
    // Start animation loop
    this.animate();
    
    // Handle window resize
    window.addEventListener('resize', this.handleResize.bind(this));
  }

  /**
   * Handle window resize events
   * @private
   */
  handleResize() {
    this.camera.aspect = this.container.clientWidth / this.container.clientHeight;
    this.camera.updateProjectionMatrix();
    this.renderer.setSize(this.container.clientWidth, this.container.clientHeight);
  }

  /**
   * Animation loop
   * @private
   */
  animate() {
    requestAnimationFrame(this.animate.bind(this));
    this.controls.update();
    this.renderer.render(this.scene, this.camera);
  }

  /**
   * Handle classes extracted event
   * @param {UVEEvent} event - Classes extracted event
   * @private
   */
  handleClassesExtracted(event) {
    // Get classes from the model
    const modelManager = event.data.modelManager;
    const classes = modelManager.getClasses();
    
    // Clear existing class objects
    this.classObjects.forEach(obj => this.scene.remove(obj));
    this.classObjects.clear();
    
    // Create spheres for each class
    classes.forEach((classObj, index) => {
      const sphere = this.createClassSphere(classObj, index, classes.length);
      this.scene.add(sphere);
      this.classObjects.set(classObj.id, sphere);
    });
    
    // TODO: Create relationship pipes between classes
  }

  /**
   * Create a sphere representing a class
   * @param {ModelObject} classObj - Class model object
   * @param {number} index - Index of the class
   * @param {number} total - Total number of classes
   * @returns {Object} Three.js mesh
   * @private
   */
  createClassSphere(classObj, index, total) {
    // Create geometry
    const geometry = new this.three.SphereGeometry(1, 32, 32);
    
    // Create material with unique color based on index
    const hue = index / total;
    const material = new this.three.MeshStandardMaterial({
      color: new this.three.Color().setHSL(hue, 0.7, 0.6),
      transparent: true,
      opacity: 0.8
    });
    
    // Create mesh
    const sphere = new this.three.Mesh(geometry, material);
    
    // Position in a circle layout
    const angle = (index / total) * Math.PI * 2;
    const radius = Math.max(5, total * 0.5);
    sphere.position.x = Math.cos(angle) * radius;
    sphere.position.y = Math.sin(angle) * radius;
    
    // Store reference to class data
    sphere.userData = {
      classId: classObj.id,
      label: classObj.get('label'),
      uri: classObj.get('uri')
    };
    
    // Create label
    this.addClassLabel(sphere, classObj.get('label'));
    
    return sphere;
  }

  /**
   * Add a text label to a class sphere
   * @param {Object} sphere - Three.js mesh
   * @param {string} label - Label text
   * @private
   */
  addClassLabel(sphere, label) {
    // Create canvas
    const canvas = document.createElement('canvas');
    const context = canvas.getContext('2d');
    canvas.width = 256;
    canvas.height = 128;
    
    // Draw text
    context.fillStyle = '#ffffff';
    context.fillRect(0, 0, canvas.width, canvas.height);
    context.font = 'Bold 24px Arial';
    context.textAlign = 'center';
    context.fillStyle = '#000000';
    context.fillText(label, canvas.width / 2, canvas.height / 2);
    
    // Create sprite texture
    const texture = new this.three.CanvasTexture(canvas);
    
    // Create sprite material
    const material = new this.three.SpriteMaterial({
      map: texture,
      transparent: true
    });
    
    // Create sprite
    const sprite = new this.three.Sprite(material);
    sprite.scale.set(2, 1, 1);
    sprite.position.y = 1.5;
    
    // Add to sphere
    sphere.add(sprite);
  }
}

/**
 * Main UVE application
 * @class UVEApp
 */
export class UVEApp {
  /**
   * Create the UVE application
   * @param {Object} config - Configuration options
   */
  constructor(config = {}) {
    this.config = config;
    this.eventBus = new EventBus();
    this.rdf = config.rdf;
    this.three = config.three;
    
    this.modelManager = new RDFModelManager(this.eventBus, this.rdf);
    this.views = [];
  }

  /**
   * Initialize the application
   * @param {HTMLElement} container - DOM container for Three.js
   */
  initialize(container) {
    // Create the Three.js view
    const threeView = new ThreeJsView(this.eventBus, this.three, container);
    threeView.initialize();
    this.views.push(threeView);
    
    // Load initial data if provided
    if (this.config.initialUrl) {
      this.eventBus.publish(new UVEEvent('rdf:load', {
        url: this.config.initialUrl,
        format: this.config.initialFormat || 'text/turtle'
      }));
    }
  }

  /**
   * Clean up and dispose resources
   */
  dispose() {
    this.views.forEach(view => view.dispose());
    this.views = [];
  }
}

================
File: src/examples/foaf-example.js
================
/**
 * @fileoverview FOAF (Friend of a Friend) example implementation for UVE
 * @module examples/foaf
 */

/**
 * Create a FOAF dataset with 5 friends
 * @param {Object} rdf - RDF-Ext instance
 * @returns {Object} RDF-Ext dataset containing FOAF data
 */
export function createFOAFExample(rdf) {
  // Create namespaces
  const ns = {
    foaf: rdf.namespace('http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/'),
    rdf: rdf.namespace('http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#'),
    rdfs: rdf.namespace('http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#'),
    owl: rdf.namespace('http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#'),
    xsd: rdf.namespace('http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#'),
    ex: rdf.namespace('http://example.org/people/')
  };

  // Define people data
  const people = [
    {
      id: 'alice',
      name: 'Alice Smith',
      email: 'alice@example.org',
      interests: ['Semantic Web', 'Artificial Intelligence', 'Rock Climbing'],
      knows: ['bob', 'charlie', 'dave']
    },
    {
      id: 'bob',
      name: 'Bob Johnson',
      email: 'bob@example.org',
      interests: ['Machine Learning', 'Photography', 'Chess'],
      knows: ['alice', 'charlie', 'eve']
    },
    {
      id: 'charlie',
      name: 'Charlie Brown',
      email: 'charlie@example.org',
      interests: ['Data Science', 'Piano', 'Hiking'],
      knows: ['alice', 'bob', 'dave']
    },
    {
      id: 'dave',
      name: 'Dave Williams',
      email: 'dave@example.org',
      interests: ['Virtual Reality', 'Guitar', 'Mountain Biking'],
      knows: ['alice', 'charlie']
    },
    {
      id: 'eve',
      name: 'Eve Davis',
      email: 'eve@example.org',
      interests: ['Cryptography', 'Painting', 'Yoga'],
      knows: ['bob']
    }
  ];

  // Create a Grapoi object for building our dataset
  const g = rdf.grapoi({ term: ns.foaf.Person });

  // Add class definitions
  g.addOut(ns.rdf.type, ns.rdfs.Class)
    .addOut(ns.rdfs.label, rdf.literal('Person'))
    .addOut(ns.rdfs.comment, rdf.literal('A person.'));

  // Add property definitions
  g.node(ns.foaf.name)
    .addOut(ns.rdf.type, ns.rdf.Property)
    .addOut(ns.rdfs.label, rdf.literal('name'))
    .addOut(ns.rdfs.comment, rdf.literal('A person\'s full name'))
    .addOut(ns.rdfs.domain, ns.foaf.Person)
    .addOut(ns.rdfs.range, ns.xsd.string);

  g.node(ns.foaf.mbox)
    .addOut(ns.rdf.type, ns.rdf.Property)
    .addOut(ns.rdfs.label, rdf.literal('email'))
    .addOut(ns.rdfs.comment, rdf.literal('A personal mailbox'))
    .addOut(ns.rdfs.domain, ns.foaf.Person)
    .addOut(ns.rdfs.range, ns.rdfs.Resource);

  g.node(ns.foaf.interest)
    .addOut(ns.rdf.type, ns.rdf.Property)
    .addOut(ns.rdfs.label, rdf.literal('interest'))
    .addOut(ns.rdfs.comment, rdf.literal('A topic of interest'))
    .addOut(ns.rdfs.domain, ns.foaf.Person)
    .addOut(ns.rdfs.range, ns.rdfs.Resource);

  g.node(ns.foaf.knows)
    .addOut(ns.rdf.type, ns.rdf.Property)
    .addOut(ns.rdfs.label, rdf.literal('knows'))
    .addOut(ns.rdfs.comment, rdf.literal('A person known by this person'))
    .addOut(ns.rdfs.domain, ns.foaf.Person)
    .addOut(ns.rdfs.range, ns.foaf.Person);

  // Add people data
  people.forEach(person => {
    // Create person node
    const personNode = g.node(ns.ex(person.id));
    
    // Add basic properties
    personNode
      .addOut(ns.rdf.type, ns.foaf.Person)
      .addOut(ns.foaf.name, rdf.literal(person.name))
      .addOut(ns.foaf.mbox, rdf.namedNode(`mailto:${person.email}`));
    
    // Add interests
    person.interests.forEach(interest => {
      const interestId = interest.toLowerCase().replace(/\s+/g, '-');
      personNode.addOut(ns.foaf.interest, ns.ex(`interest/${interestId}`));
      
      // Define interest as a topic
      g.node(ns.ex(`interest/${interestId}`))
        .addOut(ns.rdf.type, ns.foaf.Topic)
        .addOut(ns.rdfs.label, rdf.literal(interest));
    });
    
    // Add knows relationships (will be added later to avoid undefined nodes)
    person.knows.forEach(friend => {
      personNode.addOut(ns.foaf.knows, ns.ex(friend));
    });
  });

  // Return the dataset
  return g.dataset;
}

/**
 * Create a FOAF example and load it into UVE
 * @param {Object} uve - UVE application instance
 * @param {Object} rdf - RDF-Ext instance
 */
export function loadFOAFExample(uve, rdf) {
  // Create the FOAF dataset
  const dataset = createFOAFExample(rdf);
  
  // Set the dataset in the model manager
  uve.modelManager.setDataset(dataset);
  
  // Notify that data is loaded
  uve.eventBus.publish({
    type: 'rdf:loaded',
    data: {
      source: 'foaf-example',
      size: dataset.size
    }
  });
}

/**
 * Save the FOAF example to a Turtle file
 * @param {Object} rdf - RDF-Ext instance
 * @returns {Promise<string>} Promise resolving to the Turtle text
 */
export async function saveFOAFExampleToTurtle(rdf) {
  // Create the FOAF dataset
  const dataset = createFOAFExample(rdf);
  
  // Convert to Turtle
  const serializer = rdf.formats.serializers.get('text/turtle');
  
  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    let turtleText = '';
    const output = new rdf.StreamSink({
      write: (chunk) => {
        turtleText += chunk;
      }
    });
    
    serializer.import(dataset.toStream())
      .pipe(output)
      .on('end', () => resolve(turtleText))
      .on('error', reject);
  });
}

/**
 * Create a 3D visualization for the FOAF data
 * @param {Object} uve - UVE application instance
 * @param {HTMLElement} container - DOM container for rendering
 */
export function visualizeFOAF(uve, container) {
  // Initialize UVE with the container
  uve.initialize(container);
  
  // Load the FOAF example
  loadFOAFExample(uve, uve.rdf);
}

================
File: src/renderers/class-sphere-renderer.js
================
/**
 * @fileoverview Three.js renderer for class spheres in UVE
 * @module uve/renderers/class-sphere
 */

/**
 * Class responsible for rendering RDF classes as 3D spheres
 */
export class ClassSphereRenderer {
  /**
   * Create a new ClassSphereRenderer
   * @param {Object} three - Three.js instance
   * @param {Object} eventBus - UVE event bus
   */
  constructor(three, eventBus) {
    this.three = three;
    this.eventBus = eventBus;
    this.classes = new Map();
    this.spheres = new Map();
    this.scene = null;
    this.selectedClass = null;
    this.hoveredClass = null;
    
    // Material properties
    this.defaultMaterial = {
      color: 0x3498db,
      opacity: 0.8,
      transparent: true,
      metalness: 0.2,
      roughness: 0.5
    };
    
    this.selectedMaterial = {
      color: 0xf39c12,
      opacity: 0.9,
      transparent: true,
      metalness: 0.3,
      roughness: 0.4,
      emissive: 0x996600
    };
    
    this.hoveredMaterial = {
      color: 0x2ecc71,
      opacity: 0.9,
      transparent: true,
      metalness: 0.3,
      roughness: 0.4
    };
    
    // Subscribe to events
    this.subscribeToEvents();
  }
  
  /**
   * Set the Three.js scene to render into
   * @param {Object} scene - Three.js scene
   */
  setScene(scene) {
    this.scene = scene;
  }
  
  /**
   * Subscribe to relevant UVE events
   * @private
   */
  subscribeToEvents() {
    this.eventBus.subscribe('rdf:classes:extracted', this.handleClassesExtracted.bind(this));
    this.eventBus.subscribe('class:select', this.handleClassSelected.bind(this));
    this.eventBus.subscribe('class:hover', this.handleClassHovered.bind(this));
    this.eventBus.subscribe('camera:move', this.handleCameraMove.bind(this));
  }
  
  /**
   * Handle class extraction event
   * @param {Object} event - Event object
   * @private
   */
  handleClassesExtracted(event) {
    // Clear existing spheres
    this.clear();
    
    // Store new class data
    const newClasses = event.data.classes;
    
    // Render the classes
    this.renderClasses(newClasses);
  }
  
  /**
   * Handle class selection event
   * @param {Object} event - Event object
   * @private
   */
  handleClassSelected(event) {
    const classId = event.data.classId;
    
    // Update selected class
    this.selectedClass = classId;
    
    // Update materials
    this.updateMaterials();
    
    // Optionally expand the class to show internals
    if (event.data.expand) {
      this.expandClass(classId);
    }
  }
  
  /**
   * Handle class hover event
   * @param {Object} event - Event object
   * @private
   */
  handleClassHovered(event) {
    const classId = event.data.classId;
    
    // Update hovered class
    this.hoveredClass = classId;
    
    // Update materials
    this.updateMaterials();
  }
  
  /**
   * Handle camera movement
   * @param {Object} event - Event object
   * @private
   */
  handleCameraMove(event) {
    // Update labels to face camera
    if (event.data.position) {
      this.updateLabels(event.data.position);
    }
  }
  
  /**
   * Clear all spheres from the scene
   */
  clear() {
    // Remove all spheres from the scene
    this.spheres.forEach(sphere => {
      this.scene.remove(sphere);
    });
    
    // Clear internal maps
    this.spheres.clear();
    this.classes.clear();
  }
  
  /**
   * Render a collection of classes as spheres
   * @param {Array<Object>} classes - Class objects
   */
  renderClasses(classes) {
    if (!this.scene) {
      console.error('Scene not set for ClassSphereRenderer');
      return;
    }
    
    // Store class data
    classes.forEach(classObj => {
      this.classes.set(classObj.id, classObj);
    });
    
    // Calculate layout
    const positions = this.calculateLayout(classes);
    
    // Create spheres for each class
    classes.forEach((classObj, index) => {
      const sphere = this.createClassSphere(classObj, positions[index]);
      this.scene.add(sphere);
      this.spheres.set(classObj.id, sphere);
    });
    
    // Create relationship lines
    this.createRelationships();
  }
  
  /**
   * Calculate positions for a collection of class spheres
   * @param {Array<Object>} classes - Class objects
   * @returns {Array<Object>} 3D positions for each class
   * @private
   */
  calculateLayout(classes) {
    const positions = [];
    const count = classes.length;
    
    // If there's only one class, put it at the center
    if (count === 1) {
      positions.push({ x: 0, y: 0, z: 0 });
      return positions;
    }
    
    // Simple spiral layout - can be replaced with force-directed layout for more complex graphs
    const radiusScale = Math.sqrt(count) * 2;
    
    for (let i = 0; i < count; i++) {
      const angle = (i / count) * Math.PI * 2;
      const radius = radiusScale * (1 + (i % 3) * 0.3);
      const height = ((i % 5) - 2) * 2;
      
      positions.push({
        x: Math.cos(angle) * radius,
        y: height,
        z: Math.sin(angle) * radius
      });
    }
    
    return positions;
  }
  
  /**
   * Create a sphere representing a class
   * @param {Object} classObj - Class object
   * @param {Object} position - 3D position
   * @returns {Object} Three.js mesh
   * @private
   */
  createClassSphere(classObj, position) {
    // Calculate sphere size based on class properties
    const properties = Object.keys(classObj.properties || {}).length;
    const radius = 1 + Math.min(Math.sqrt(properties) * 0.2, 1);
    
    // Create geometry
    const geometry = new this.three.SphereGeometry(radius, 32, 32);
    
    // Create material
    const material = new this.three.MeshStandardMaterial(this.defaultMaterial);
    
    // Create mesh
    const sphere = new this.three.Mesh(geometry, material);
    
    // Set position
    sphere.position.set(position.x, position.y, position.z);
    
    // Store metadata
    sphere.userData = {
      classId: classObj.id,
      className: classObj.get('label') || classObj.id,
      uri: classObj.get('uri') || classObj.id,
      properties: properties
    };
    
    // Add label
    this.addLabel(sphere, classObj);
    
    // Add interface ports if applicable
    this.addInterfacePorts(sphere, classObj);
    
    return sphere;
  }
  
  /**
   * Add a text label to a sphere
   * @param {Object} sphere - Three.js mesh
   * @param {Object} classObj - Class object
   * @private
   */
  addLabel(sphere, classObj) {
    // Get class name
    const name = classObj.get('label') || classObj.id;
    
    // Create dynamic canvas for the label
    const canvas = document.createElement('canvas');
    const context = canvas.getContext('2d');
    canvas.width = 256;
    canvas.height = 128;
    
    // Draw background
    context.fillStyle = 'rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.8)';
    context.fillRect(0, 0, canvas.width, canvas.height);
    
    // Draw text
    context.font = 'bold 24px Arial';
    context.fillStyle = '#000000';
    context.textAlign = 'center';
    context.textBaseline = 'middle';
    context.fillText(name, canvas.width / 2, canvas.height / 2);
    
    // Create texture
    const texture = new this.three.CanvasTexture(canvas);
    
    // Create sprite material
    const material = new this.three.SpriteMaterial({
      map: texture,
      transparent: true
    });
    
    // Create sprite
    const sprite = new this.three.Sprite(material);
    sprite.scale.set(2.5, 1.25, 1);
    sprite.position.y = sphere.geometry.parameters.radius + 0.5;
    
    // Add to sphere
    sphere.add(sprite);
    
    // Store for later updates
    sphere.userData.label = sprite;
  }
  
  /**
   * Add interface ports to a sphere
   * @param {Object} sphere - Three.js mesh
   * @param {Object} classObj - Class object
   * @private
   */
  addInterfacePorts(sphere, classObj) {
    // Get interfaces implemented by this class
    const interfaces = classObj.get('interfaces') || [];
    
    if (interfaces.length === 0) {
      return;
    }
    
    const radius = sphere.geometry.parameters.radius;
    const ports = [];
    
    // Create a port for each interface
    interfaces.forEach((interfaceId, index) => {
      // Calculate position on sphere surface
      const phi = Math.acos(-1 + (2 * index) / interfaces.length);
      const theta = Math.sqrt(interfaces.length * Math.PI) * phi;
      
      const x = radius * Math.sin(phi) * Math.cos(theta);
      const y = radius * Math.sin(phi) * Math.sin(theta);
      const z = radius * Math.cos(phi);
      
      // Create port geometry
      const portGeometry = new this.three.SphereGeometry(0.2, 16, 16);
      const portMaterial = new this.three.MeshStandardMaterial({
        color: 0xe74c3c,
        emissive: 0x7b0000,
        metalness: 0.5,
        roughness: 0.2
      });
      
      // Create port mesh
      const port = new this.three.Mesh(portGeometry, portMaterial);
      port.position.set(x, y, z);
      
      // Store metadata
      port.userData = {
        interfaceId: interfaceId,
        name: interfaceId.split(/[#\/]/).pop()
      };
      
      // Add to sphere
      sphere.add(port);
      ports.push(port);
    });
    
    // Store for later updates
    sphere.userData.ports = ports;
  }
  
  /**
   * Create relationship lines between classes
   * @private
   */
  createRelationships() {
    // For each class, check for relationships with other classes
    this.classes.forEach((sourceClass, sourceId) => {
      const sourceParents = sourceClass.get('parents') || [];
      const sourceImplements = sourceClass.get('implements') || [];
      
      // Add parent relationships (inheritance)
      sourceParents.forEach(parentId => {
        const parentSphere = this.spheres.get(parentId);
        const sourceSphere = this.spheres.get(sourceId);
        
        if (parentSphere && sourceSphere) {
          this.createRelationshipLine(sourceSphere, parentSphere, {
            type: 'inherits',
            color: 0x3498db,
            dashed: false,
            label: 'extends'
          });
        }
      });
      
      // Add interface implementation relationships
      sourceImplements.forEach(interfaceId => {
        const interfaceSphere = this.spheres.get(interfaceId);
        const sourceSphere = this.spheres.get(sourceId);
        
        if (interfaceSphere && sourceSphere) {
          this.createRelationshipLine(sourceSphere, interfaceSphere, {
            type: 'implements',
            color: 0xe74c3c,
            dashed: true,
            label: 'implements'
          });
        }
      });
      
      // Add other relationships (e.g., associations, dependencies)
      const relationships = sourceClass.get('relationships') || [];
      
      relationships.forEach(rel => {
        const targetSphere = this.spheres.get(rel.targetId);
        const sourceSphere = this.spheres.get(sourceId);
        
        if (targetSphere && sourceSphere) {
          this.createRelationshipLine(sourceSphere, targetSphere, {
            type: rel.type,
            color: 0x2ecc71,
            dashed: false,
            label: rel.name || rel.type
          });
        }
      });
    });
  }
  
  /**
   * Create a line representing a relationship between two spheres
   * @param {Object} source - Source sphere
   * @param {Object} target - Target sphere
   * @param {Object} options - Relationship options
   * @private
   */
  createRelationshipLine(source, target, options) {
    // Create a curve between the spheres
    const sourceRadius = source.geometry.parameters.radius;
    const targetRadius = target.geometry.parameters.radius;
    
    // Calculate start and end points (on sphere surfaces)
    const direction = new this.three.Vector3().subVectors(target.position, source.position).normalize();
    
    const start = new this.three.Vector3().copy(source.position).add(
      direction.clone().multiplyScalar(sourceRadius)
    );
    
    const end = new this.three.Vector3().copy(target.position).add(
      direction.clone().multiplyScalar(-targetRadius)
    );
    
    // Create points for curve with a slight arc
    const midPoint = new this.three.Vector3().lerpVectors(start, end, 0.5);
    const normal = new this.three.Vector3().crossVectors(
      new this.three.Vector3(0, 1, 0),
      direction
    ).normalize();
    
    // Add slight curve based on relationship type
    midPoint.add(normal.multiplyScalar(2));
    
    // Create a quadratic bezier curve
    const curve = new this.three.QuadraticBezierCurve3(start, midPoint, end);
    
    // Create geometry with curve
    const points = curve.getPoints(20);
    const geometry = new this.three.BufferGeometry().setFromPoints(points);
    
    // Create material
    let material;
    if (options.dashed) {
      material = new this.three.LineDashedMaterial({
        color: options.color,
        linewidth: 2,
        dashSize: 0.5,
        gapSize: 0.3
      });
    } else {
      material = new this.three.LineBasicMaterial({
        color: options.color,
        linewidth: 2
      });
    }
    
    // Create line
    const line = new this.three.Line(geometry, material);
    
    // Set line properties
    if (options.dashed) {
      line.computeLineDistances();
    }
    
    // Add relationship metadata
    line.userData = {
      type: options.type,
      sourceId: source.userData.classId,
      targetId: target.userData.classId,
      label: options.label
    };
    
    // Add label for the relationship
    this.addRelationshipLabel(line, options.label, midPoint);
    
    // Add to scene
    this.scene.add(line);
    
    // Store for later reference
    if (!source.userData.relationships) {
      source.userData.relationships = [];
    }
    source.userData.relationships.push(line);
  }
  
  /**
   * Add a label to a relationship line
   * @param {Object} line - Three.js line
   * @param {string} text - Label text
   * @param {Object} position - 3D position
   * @private
   */
  addRelationshipLabel(line, text, position) {
    // Create dynamic canvas for the label
    const canvas = document.createElement('canvas');
    const context = canvas.getContext('2d');
    canvas.width = 128;
    canvas.height = 64;
    
    // Draw background
    context.fillStyle = 'rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.7)';
    context.fillRect(0, 0, canvas.width, canvas.height);
    
    // Draw text
    context.font = '16px Arial';
    context.fillStyle = '#000000';
    context.textAlign = 'center';
    context.textBaseline = 'middle';
    context.fillText(text, canvas.width / 2, canvas.height / 2);
    
    // Create texture
    const texture = new this.three.CanvasTexture(canvas);
    
    // Create sprite material
    const material = new this.three.SpriteMaterial({
      map: texture,
      transparent: true
    });
    
    // Create sprite
    const sprite = new this.three.Sprite(material);
    sprite.scale.set(1.5, 0.75, 1);
    sprite.position.copy(position);
    
    // Add to scene
    this.scene.add(sprite);
    
    // Store for later updates
    line.userData.label = sprite;
  }
  
  /**
   * Update all sphere materials based on selection/hover state
   * @private
   */
  updateMaterials() {
    this.spheres.forEach((sphere, classId) => {
      let materialProps;
      
      if (classId === this.selectedClass) {
        materialProps = this.selectedMaterial;
      } else if (classId === this.hoveredClass) {
        materialProps = this.hoveredMaterial;
      } else {
        materialProps = this.defaultMaterial;
      }
      
      // Apply material properties
      Object.assign(sphere.material, materialProps);
      
      // Update emissive intensity for selected class
      if (classId === this.selectedClass) {
        sphere.material.emissiveIntensity = 0.5;
      } else {
        sphere.material.emissiveIntensity = 0;
      }
    });
  }
  
  /**
   * Update label orientations to face the camera
   * @param {Object} cameraPosition - Camera position
   * @private
   */
  updateLabels(cameraPosition) {
    this.spheres.forEach(sphere => {
      // Update class label
      if (sphere.userData.label) {
        sphere.userData.label.lookAt(cameraPosition);
      }
      
      // Update relationship labels
      if (sphere.userData.relationships) {
        sphere.userData.relationships.forEach(rel => {
          if (rel.userData.label) {
            rel.userData.label.lookAt(cameraPosition);
          }
        });
      }
    });
  }
  
  /**
   * Expand a class to show its internal structure
   * @param {string} classId - Class ID to expand
   * @private
   */
  expandClass(classId) {
    const sphere = this.spheres.get(classId);
    if (!sphere) {
      return;
    }
    
    // Publish event for expanding a class
    this.eventBus.publish({
      type: 'class:expand',
      data: {
        classId,
        position: sphere.position.clone(),
        radius: sphere.geometry.parameters.radius
      }
    });
  }
}

================
File: tests/uve-tests.js
================
/**
 * @fileoverview Unit tests for UVE core components
 */

import { EventBus, UVEEvent, ModelObject, RDFModelManager } from '../src/core.js';

describe('EventBus', () => {
  let eventBus;
  
  beforeEach(() => {
    eventBus = new EventBus();
  });
  
  it('should allow subscribing to events', () => {
    const callback = jasmine.createSpy('callback');
    
    eventBus.subscribe('test-event', callback);
    eventBus.publish(new UVEEvent('test-event', { value: 'test' }));
    
    expect(callback).toHaveBeenCalled();
    expect(callback.calls.first().args[0].type).toBe('test-event');
    expect(callback.calls.first().args[0].data.value).toBe('test');
  });
  
  it('should allow unsubscribing from events', () => {
    const callback = jasmine.createSpy('callback');
    
    const unsubscribe = eventBus.subscribe('test-event', callback);
    unsubscribe();
    eventBus.publish(new UVEEvent('test-event'));
    
    expect(callback).not.toHaveBeenCalled();
  });
  
  it('should handle multiple subscribers for the same event', () => {
    const callback1 = jasmine.createSpy('callback1');
    const callback2 = jasmine.createSpy('callback2');
    
    eventBus.subscribe('test-event', callback1);
    eventBus.subscribe('test-event', callback2);
    eventBus.publish(new UVEEvent('test-event'));
    
    expect(callback1).toHaveBeenCalled();
    expect(callback2).toHaveBeenCalled();
  });
  
  it('should only notify subscribers of the matching event type', () => {
    const callback1 = jasmine.createSpy('callback1');
    const callback2 = jasmine.createSpy('callback2');
    
    eventBus.subscribe('event1', callback1);
    eventBus.subscribe('event2', callback2);
    eventBus.publish(new UVEEvent('event1'));
    
    expect(callback1).toHaveBeenCalled();
    expect(callback2).not.toHaveBeenCalled();
  });
  
  it('should catch errors in event handlers and continue processing', () => {
    const errorCallback = () => {
      throw new Error('Test error');
    };
    const successCallback = jasmine.createSpy('successCallback');
    
    // Spy on console.error to prevent test output pollution
    spyOn(console, 'error');
    
    eventBus.subscribe('test-event', errorCallback);
    eventBus.subscribe('test-event', successCallback);
    eventBus.publish(new UVEEvent('test-event'));
    
    expect(successCallback).toHaveBeenCalled();
    expect(console.error).toHaveBeenCalled();
  });
});

describe('ModelObject', () => {
  let eventBus, modelObj;
  
  beforeEach(() => {
    eventBus = new EventBus();
    modelObj = new ModelObject(eventBus, 'test-object');
  });
  
  it('should store and retrieve property values', () => {
    modelObj.set('testProp', 'testValue');
    
    expect(modelObj.get('testProp')).toBe('testValue');
  });
  
  it('should return default value for non-existent properties', () => {
    expect(modelObj.get('nonExistent')).toBeNull();
    expect(modelObj.get('nonExistent', 'default')).toBe('default');
  });
  
  it('should publish events when properties change', () => {
    const callback = jasmine.createSpy('callback');
    eventBus.subscribe('model:property:change', callback);
    
    modelObj.set('testProp', 'testValue');
    
    expect(callback).toHaveBeenCalled();
    const event = callback.calls.first().args[0];
    expect(event.data.modelId).toBe('test-object');
    expect(event.data.property).toBe('testProp');
    expect(event.data.oldValue).toBeNull();
    expect(event.data.newValue).toBe('testValue');
  });
  
  it('should include previous value in change event', () => {
    const callback = jasmine.createSpy('callback');
    eventBus.subscribe('model:property:change', callback);
    
    modelObj.set('testProp', 'value1');
    modelObj.set('testProp', 'value2');
    
    expect(callback.calls.count()).toBe(2);
    const event = callback.calls.mostRecent().args[0];
    expect(event.data.oldValue).toBe('value1');
    expect(event.data.newValue).toBe('value2');
  });
});

describe('RDFModelManager', () => {
  let eventBus, rdfMock, modelManager;
  
  beforeEach(() => {
    eventBus = new EventBus();
    
    // Create a mock RDF-Ext implementation
    rdfMock = {
      dataset: jasmine.createSpy('dataset').and.returnValue({
        size: 0
      }),
      namespace: jasmine.createSpy('namespace').and.callFake(ns => {
        // Return a function that appends the local name to the namespace
        return (localName) => ({ value: `${ns}${localName}` });
      }),
      grapoi: jasmine.createSpy('grapoi').and.returnValue({
        has: () => ({ 
          addUnion: () => ({
            has: () => ({
              distinct: () => ({
                terms: []
              })
            })
          })
        }),
        out: () => ({
          values: []
        }),
        terms: []
      }),
      io: {
        dataset: {
          fromURL: jasmine.createSpy('fromURL').and.returnValue(Promise.resolve({
            size: 0
          }))
        }
      }
    };
    
    modelManager = new RDFModelManager(eventBus, rdfMock);
  });
  
  it('should initialize with an empty dataset', () => {
    expect(rdfMock.dataset).toHaveBeenCalled();
    expect(modelManager.dataset).toBeDefined();
  });
  
  it('should load data from URL', async () => {
    const url = 'http://example.org/data.ttl';
    await modelManager.loadFromUrl(url);
    
    expect(rdfMock.io.dataset.fromURL).toHaveBeenCalledWith(url);
    
    // Verify that an event was published
    const publishSpy = spyOn(eventBus, 'publish');
    await modelManager.loadFromUrl(url);
    
    expect(publishSpy).toHaveBeenCalled();
    expect(publishSpy.calls.first().args[0].type).toBe('rdf:loaded');
  });
  
  it('should publish error events when loading fails', async () => {
    const url = 'http://example.org/invalid.ttl';
    const error = new Error('Loading failed');
    
    rdfMock.io.dataset.fromURL.and.returnValue(Promise.reject(error));
    
    const publishSpy = spyOn(eventBus, 'publish');
    await modelManager.loadFromUrl(url);
    
    expect(publishSpy).toHaveBeenCalled();
    expect(publishSpy.calls.first().args[0].type).toBe('rdf:error');
    expect(publishSpy.calls.first().args[0].data.error).toBe(error.message);
  });
  
  it('should extract classes from the dataset', () => {
    const mockDataset = {
      size: 10
    };
    
    const extractSpy = spyOn(modelManager, 'extractClasses');
    modelManager.setDataset(mockDataset);
    
    expect(modelManager.dataset).toBe(mockDataset);
    expect(extractSpy).toHaveBeenCalled();
  });
  
  it('should publish event when classes are extracted', () => {
    const publishSpy = spyOn(eventBus, 'publish');
    
    // Call the private method directly
    modelManager.extractClasses();
    
    expect(publishSpy).toHaveBeenCalled();
    expect(publishSpy.calls.first().args[0].type).toBe('rdf:classes:extracted');
  });
  
  it('should return extracted classes', () => {
    const classes = modelManager.getClasses();
    
    expect(Array.isArray(classes)).toBe(true);
  });
});

describe('Integration Tests', () => {
  let eventBus, modelObj1, modelObj2;
  
  beforeEach(() => {
    eventBus = new EventBus();
    modelObj1 = new ModelObject(eventBus, 'object1');
    modelObj2 = new ModelObject(eventBus, 'object2');
  });
  
  it('should allow objects to communicate via events', () => {
    // Set up modelObj2 to listen for changes to modelObj1
    const callback = jasmine.createSpy('callback');
    
    eventBus.subscribe('model:property:change', (event) => {
      if (event.data.modelId === 'object1' && event.data.property === 'sourceProperty') {
        modelObj2.set('targetProperty', event.data.newValue);
      }
    });
    
    eventBus.subscribe('model:property:change', callback);
    
    // Change a property on modelObj1
    modelObj1.set('sourceProperty', 'test-value');
    
    // Verify that modelObj2 was updated
    expect(modelObj2.get('targetProperty')).toBe('test-value');
    
    // Verify that two events were published (one for each property change)
    expect(callback.calls.count()).toBe(2);
  });
});

================
File: .gitignore
================
# Logs
logs
*.log
npm-debug.log*
yarn-debug.log*
yarn-error.log*
lerna-debug.log*
.pnpm-debug.log*

# Diagnostic reports (https://nodejs.org/api/report.html)
report.[0-9]*.[0-9]*.[0-9]*.[0-9]*.json

# Runtime data
pids
*.pid
*.seed
*.pid.lock

# Directory for instrumented libs generated by jscoverage/JSCover
lib-cov

# Coverage directory used by tools like istanbul
coverage
*.lcov

# nyc test coverage
.nyc_output

# Grunt intermediate storage (https://gruntjs.com/creating-plugins#storing-task-files)
.grunt

# Bower dependency directory (https://bower.io/)
bower_components

# node-waf configuration
.lock-wscript

# Compiled binary addons (https://nodejs.org/api/addons.html)
build/Release

# Dependency directories
node_modules/
jspm_packages/

# Snowpack dependency directory (https://snowpack.dev/)
web_modules/

# TypeScript cache
*.tsbuildinfo

# Optional npm cache directory
.npm

# Optional eslint cache
.eslintcache

# Optional stylelint cache
.stylelintcache

# Microbundle cache
.rpt2_cache/
.rts2_cache_cjs/
.rts2_cache_es/
.rts2_cache_umd/

# Optional REPL history
.node_repl_history

# Output of 'npm pack'
*.tgz

# Yarn Integrity file
.yarn-integrity

# dotenv environment variable files
.env
.env.development.local
.env.test.local
.env.production.local
.env.local

# parcel-bundler cache (https://parceljs.org/)
.cache
.parcel-cache

# Next.js build output
.next
out

# Nuxt.js build / generate output
.nuxt
dist

# Gatsby files
.cache/
# Comment in the public line in if your project uses Gatsby and not Next.js
# https://nextjs.org/blog/next-9-1#public-directory-support
# public

# vuepress build output
.vuepress/dist

# vuepress v2.x temp and cache directory
.temp
.cache

# vitepress build output
**/.vitepress/dist

# vitepress cache directory
**/.vitepress/cache

# Docusaurus cache and generated files
.docusaurus

# Serverless directories
.serverless/

# FuseBox cache
.fusebox/

# DynamoDB Local files
.dynamodb/

# TernJS port file
.tern-port

# Stores VSCode versions used for testing VSCode extensions
.vscode-test

# yarn v2
.yarn/cache
.yarn/unplugged
.yarn/build-state.yml
.yarn/install-state.gz
.pnp.*

================
File: jsdoc-config.json
================
{
  "source": {
    "include": ["src", "README.md"],
    "exclude": ["node_modules"]
  },
  "opts": {
    "destination": "./docs/generated",
    "recurse": true,
    "template": "node_modules/docdash"
  },
  "plugins": ["plugins/markdown"],
  "templates": {
    "cleverLinks": true,
    "monospaceLinks": false
  },
  "docdash": {
    "static": true,
    "sort": true
  }
}

================
File: LICENSE
================
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2025 Danny Ayers

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

================
File: package.json
================
{
  "name": "uve",
  "version": "0.1.0",
  "description": "Universal Virtual Environment - 3D visualization for conceptual spaces",
  "main": "src/core/index.js",
  "type": "module",
  "scripts": {
    "test": "jasmine",
    "docs": "jsdoc -c jsdoc.json",
    "rp": "repomix -c repomix.config.json ."
  },
  "dependencies": {
    "loglevel": "^1.8.1",
    "rdf-ext": "^2.5.0",
    "three": "^0.160.0"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "chai": "^4.3.7",
    "jasmine": "^5.1.0",
    "jsdoc": "^4.0.2",
    "webpack": "^5.98.0"
  },
  "keywords": [
    "rdf",
    "3d",
    "visualization",
    "owl",
    "threejs"
  ],
  "author": "",
  "license": "MIT"
}

================
File: README.md
================
# UVE - Universal Virtual Environment

UVE is a 3D visualization system for conceptual spaces using Three.js and RDF/OWL models.

_Vibe Coding nonsense_

## Features

- Classes represented as interactive 3D spheres
- Relationships displayed as labeled pipes
- Interfaces appear as ports on sphere surfaces
- First-person navigation with mouse/arrow key controls
- Hierarchical visualization with nested spaces
- RDF/OWL model support using RDF-Ext and Grapoi libraries

## Project Architecture

UVE uses a Model-View pattern with pub-sub messaging:

- Common event bus in the model layer
- Many-to-one change event propagation
- Two main views: RDF graph and Three.js 3D visualization

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (v16+)
- npm

### Installation

1. Clone this repository:

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/uve.git
   cd uve
   ```

2. Install dependencies:

   ```
   npm install
   ```

3. Start the development server:

   ```
   npm start
   ```

4. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000`

## Development

### Project Structure

```
uve/
 src/              # Source code
    core/         # Core components
    renderers/    # Visualization renderers
    views/        # View implementations
    examples/     # Example implementations
 tests/            # Unit tests
 public/           # Static assets
 docs/             # Documentation
```

### Running Tests

```
npm test
```

### Building for Production

```
npm run build
```

## Examples

The project includes a FOAF (Friend of a Friend) example with 5 friends that demonstrates the capabilities of UVE. To load this example, click the "Load FOAF Example" button in the UI.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

================
File: repomix.config.json
================
{
    "output": {
        "filePath": "./repomix-uve.md",
        "headerText": "UVE repo",
        "removeComments": false
    },
    "include": [
        "**/*"
    ],
    "ignore": {
        "useDefaultPatterns": false,
        "customPatterns": [
            "package-lock.json",
            "data",
            "docs",
            ".nyc_output",
            ".env",
            "**/_*",
            "node_modules",
            "*.log",
            "**/*repomix*.txt",
            "**/*repomix*.md",
            "**/*.html",
            "**/data/*",
            "**/*copy*.js",
            "**/conversations.json"
        ]
    }
}

================
File: uve-core.js
================
/**
 * @fileoverview UVE core architecture implementation
 * @module uve/core
 */

/**
 * Base class for all UVE event types
 * @class UVEEvent
 */
export class UVEEvent {
  /**
   * Create a new UVE event
   * @param {string} type - The event type
   * @param {Object} data - Event data
   */
  constructor(type, data = {}) {
    this.type = type;
    this.data = data;
    this.timestamp = Date.now();
  }
}

/**
 * Event bus for UVE system-wide messaging
 * @class EventBus
 */
export class EventBus {
  constructor() {
    this.subscribers = new Map();
  }

  /**
   * Subscribe to events of a specific type
   * @param {string} eventType - Type of event to subscribe to
   * @param {Function} callback - Function to call when event occurs
   * @returns {Function} Unsubscribe function
   */
  subscribe(eventType, callback) {
    if (!this.subscribers.has(eventType)) {
      this.subscribers.set(eventType, new Set());
    }
    
    this.subscribers.get(eventType).add(callback);
    
    // Return unsubscribe function
    return () => {
      const subs = this.subscribers.get(eventType);
      if (subs) {
        subs.delete(callback);
        if (subs.size === 0) {
          this.subscribers.delete(eventType);
        }
      }
    };
  }

  /**
   * Publish an event to all subscribers
   * @param {UVEEvent} event - The event to publish
   */
  publish(event) {
    const subs = this.subscribers.get(event.type);
    if (subs) {
      subs.forEach(callback => {
        try {
          callback(event);
        } catch (error) {
          console.error(`Error in event handler for ${event.type}:`, error);
        }
      });
    }
  }
}

/**
 * Base class for all model objects
 * @class ModelObject
 */
export class ModelObject {
  /**
   * Create a new model object
   * @param {EventBus} eventBus - The system event bus
   * @param {string} id - Unique identifier for this object
   */
  constructor(eventBus, id) {
    this.eventBus = eventBus;
    this.id = id;
    this.properties = new Map();
  }

  /**
   * Get a property value
   * @param {string} key - Property name
   * @param {*} defaultValue - Default value if property doesn't exist
   * @returns {*} Property value
   */
  get(key, defaultValue = null) {
    return this.properties.has(key) ? this.properties.get(key) : defaultValue;
  }

  /**
   * Set a property value and notify subscribers
   * @param {string} key - Property name
   * @param {*} value - Property value
   * @fires ModelPropertyChangeEvent
   */
  set(key, value) {
    const oldValue = this.get(key);
    this.properties.set(key, value);
    
    this.eventBus.publish(new UVEEvent('model:property:change', {
      modelId: this.id,
      property: key,
      oldValue,
      newValue: value
    }));
  }
}

/**
 * RDF Model Manager for loading and manipulating RDF data
 * @class RDFModelManager
 */
export class RDFModelManager {
  /**
   * Create a new RDF Model Manager
   * @param {EventBus} eventBus - The system event bus
   * @param {Object} rdf - RDF-Ext instance
   */
  constructor(eventBus, rdf) {
    this.eventBus = eventBus;
    this.rdf = rdf;
    this.dataset = rdf.dataset();
    this.classMap = new Map();
    
    // Subscribe to relevant events
    this.eventBus.subscribe('rdf:load', this.handleLoad.bind(this));
  }

  /**
   * Handle RDF load events
   * @param {UVEEvent} event - Load event
   * @private
   */
  handleLoad(event) {
    const { url, format } = event.data;
    this.loadFromUrl(url, format);
  }

  /**
   * Load RDF data from a URL
   * @param {string} url - URL to load from
   * @param {string} format - RDF format (e.g., 'text/turtle')
   * @returns {Promise<void>}
   */
  async loadFromUrl(url, format = 'text/turtle') {
    try {
      const dataset = await this.rdf.io.dataset.fromURL(url);
      this.setDataset(dataset);
      
      this.eventBus.publish(new UVEEvent('rdf:loaded', {
        source: url,
        size: dataset.size
      }));
    } catch (error) {
      this.eventBus.publish(new UVEEvent('rdf:error', {
        source: url,
        error: error.message
      }));
    }
  }

  /**
   * Set the current dataset
   * @param {Object} dataset - RDF-Ext dataset
   */
  setDataset(dataset) {
    this.dataset = dataset;
    this.extractClasses();
  }

  /**
   * Extract class definitions from the dataset
   * @private
   */
  extractClasses() {
    const ns = {
      rdf: this.rdf.namespace('http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#'),
      rdfs: this.rdf.namespace('http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#'),
      owl: this.rdf.namespace('http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#')
    };
    
    // Find all classes (instances of rdfs:Class or owl:Class)
    const classes = this.rdf.grapoi({ dataset: this.dataset })
      .has(ns.rdf.type, ns.rdfs.Class)
      .addUnion()
      .has(ns.rdf.type, ns.owl.Class)
      .distinct()
      .terms;
    
    // Clear existing class map
    this.classMap.clear();
    
    // Process each class
    classes.forEach(classTerm => {
      const classId = classTerm.value;
      const label = this.getLabel(classTerm);
      
      // Get parent classes
      const parents = this.rdf.grapoi({ dataset: this.dataset, term: classTerm })
        .out(ns.rdfs.subClassOf)
        .terms;
      
      // Create class model object
      const classObj = new ModelObject(this.eventBus, classId);
      classObj.set('label', label);
      classObj.set('uri', classId);
      classObj.set('parents', parents.map(p => p.value));
      
      this.classMap.set(classId, classObj);
    });
    
    // Notify that classes have been extracted
    this.eventBus.publish(new UVEEvent('rdf:classes:extracted', {
      count: this.classMap.size
    }));
  }

  /**
   * Get a readable label for an RDF term
   * @param {Object} term - RDF-Ext term
   * @returns {string} Label
   * @private
   */
  getLabel(term) {
    const ns = {
      rdfs: this.rdf.namespace('http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#')
    };
    
    // Try to get rdfs:label
    const labels = this.rdf.grapoi({ dataset: this.dataset, term })
      .out(ns.rdfs.label)
      .values;
    
    if (labels.length > 0) {
      return labels[0];
    }
    
    // Fallback to the local part of the URI
    const uri = term.value;
    const localName = uri.split(/[#/]/).pop();
    
    return localName;
  }

  /**
   * Get all class definitions
   * @returns {Array<ModelObject>} Class definitions
   */
  getClasses() {
    return Array.from(this.classMap.values());
  }
}

/**
 * View base class
 * @class View
 */
export class View {
  /**
   * Create a new view
   * @param {EventBus} eventBus - The system event bus
   * @param {string} id - View identifier
   */
  constructor(eventBus, id) {
    this.eventBus = eventBus;
    this.id = id;
    this.subscriptions = [];
  }

  /**
   * Initialize the view
   * @returns {void}
   */
  initialize() {
    // To be implemented by subclasses
  }

  /**
   * Subscribe to an event
   * @param {string} eventType - Type of event
   * @param {Function} callback - Callback function
   * @protected
   */
  subscribeToEvent(eventType, callback) {
    const unsubscribe = this.eventBus.subscribe(eventType, callback);
    this.subscriptions.push(unsubscribe);
  }

  /**
   * Clean up all subscriptions
   */
  dispose() {
    this.subscriptions.forEach(unsubscribe => unsubscribe());
    this.subscriptions = [];
  }
}

/**
 * Three.js view for 3D visualization
 * @class ThreeJsView
 * @extends View
 */
export class ThreeJsView extends View {
  /**
   * Create a new Three.js view
   * @param {EventBus} eventBus - The system event bus
   * @param {Object} three - Three.js instance
   * @param {HTMLElement} container - DOM container for the renderer
   */
  constructor(eventBus, three, container) {
    super(eventBus, 'three-js-view');
    this.three = three;
    this.container = container;
    this.scene = null;
    this.camera = null;
    this.renderer = null;
    this.controls = null;
    this.classObjects = new Map();
  }

  /**
   * Initialize the Three.js scene
   * @override
   */
  initialize() {
    // Create scene
    this.scene = new this.three.Scene();
    this.scene.background = new this.three.Color(0xf0f0f0);
    
    // Create camera
    this.camera = new this.three.PerspectiveCamera(
      75, 
      this.container.clientWidth / this.container.clientHeight,
      0.1,
      1000
    );
    this.camera.position.z = 10;
    
    // Create renderer
    this.renderer = new this.three.WebGLRenderer({ antialias: true });
    this.renderer.setSize(this.container.clientWidth, this.container.clientHeight);
    this.container.appendChild(this.renderer.domElement);
    
    // Add orbit controls
    this.controls = new this.three.OrbitControls(
      this.camera,
      this.renderer.domElement
    );
    this.controls.enableDamping = true;
    
    // Add ambient light
    const ambientLight = new this.three.AmbientLight(0x404040);
    this.scene.add(ambientLight);
    
    // Add directional light
    const directionalLight = new this.three.DirectionalLight(0xffffff, 0.5);
    directionalLight.position.set(1, 1, 1);
    this.scene.add(directionalLight);
    
    // Subscribe to relevant events
    this.subscribeToEvent('rdf:classes:extracted', this.handleClassesExtracted.bind(this));
    
    // Start animation loop
    this.animate();
    
    // Handle window resize
    window.addEventListener('resize', this.handleResize.bind(this));
  }

  /**
   * Handle window resize events
   * @private
   */
  handleResize() {
    this.camera.aspect = this.container.clientWidth / this.container.clientHeight;
    this.camera.updateProjectionMatrix();
    this.renderer.setSize(this.container.clientWidth, this.container.clientHeight);
  }

  /**
   * Animation loop
   * @private
   */
  animate() {
    requestAnimationFrame(this.animate.bind(this));
    this.controls.update();
    this.renderer.render(this.scene, this.camera);
  }

  /**
   * Handle classes extracted event
   * @param {UVEEvent} event - Classes extracted event
   * @private
   */
  handleClassesExtracted(event) {
    // Get classes from the model
    const modelManager = event.data.modelManager;
    const classes = modelManager.getClasses();
    
    // Clear existing class objects
    this.classObjects.forEach(obj => this.scene.remove(obj));
    this.classObjects.clear();
    
    // Create spheres for each class
    classes.forEach((classObj, index) => {
      const sphere = this.createClassSphere(classObj, index, classes.length);
      this.scene.add(sphere);
      this.classObjects.set(classObj.id, sphere);
    });
    
    // TODO: Create relationship pipes between classes
  }

  /**
   * Create a sphere representing a class
   * @param {ModelObject} classObj - Class model object
   * @param {number} index - Index of the class
   * @param {number} total - Total number of classes
   * @returns {Object} Three.js mesh
   * @private
   */
  createClassSphere(classObj, index, total) {
    // Create geometry
    const geometry = new this.three.SphereGeometry(1, 32, 32);
    
    // Create material with unique color based on index
    const hue = index / total;
    const material = new this.three.MeshStandardMaterial({
      color: new this.three.Color().setHSL(hue, 0.7, 0.6),
      transparent: true,
      opacity: 0.8
    });
    
    // Create mesh
    const sphere = new this.three.Mesh(geometry, material);
    
    // Position in a circle layout
    const angle = (index / total) * Math.PI * 2;
    const radius = Math.max(5, total * 0.5);
    sphere.position.x = Math.cos(angle) * radius;
    sphere.position.y = Math.sin(angle) * radius;
    
    // Store reference to class data
    sphere.userData = {
      classId: classObj.id,
      label: classObj.get('label'),
      uri: classObj.get('uri')
    };
    
    // Create label
    this.addClassLabel(sphere, classObj.get('label'));
    
    return sphere;
  }

  /**
   * Add a text label to a class sphere
   * @param {Object} sphere - Three.js mesh
   * @param {string} label - Label text
   * @private
   */
  addClassLabel(sphere, label) {
    // Create canvas
    const canvas = document.createElement('canvas');
    const context = canvas.getContext('2d');
    canvas.width = 256;
    canvas.height = 128;
    
    // Draw text
    context.fillStyle = '#ffffff';
    context.fillRect(0, 0, canvas.width, canvas.height);
    context.font = 'Bold 24px Arial';
    context.textAlign = 'center';
    context.fillStyle = '#000000';
    context.fillText(label, canvas.width / 2, canvas.height / 2);
    
    // Create sprite texture
    const texture = new this.three.CanvasTexture(canvas);
    
    // Create sprite material
    const material = new this.three.SpriteMaterial({
      map: texture,
      transparent: true
    });
    
    // Create sprite
    const sprite = new this.three.Sprite(material);
    sprite.scale.set(2, 1, 1);
    sprite.position.y = 1.5;
    
    // Add to sphere
    sphere.add(sprite);
  }
}

/**
 * Main UVE application
 * @class UVEApp
 */
export class UVEApp {
  /**
   * Create the UVE application
   * @param {Object} config - Configuration options
   */
  constructor(config = {}) {
    this.config = config;
    this.eventBus = new EventBus();
    this.rdf = config.rdf;
    this.three = config.three;
    
    this.modelManager = new RDFModelManager(this.eventBus, this.rdf);
    this.views = [];
  }

  /**
   * Initialize the application
   * @param {HTMLElement} container - DOM container for Three.js
   */
  initialize(container) {
    // Create the Three.js view
    const threeView = new ThreeJsView(this.eventBus, this.three, container);
    threeView.initialize();
    this.views.push(threeView);
    
    // Load initial data if provided
    if (this.config.initialUrl) {
      this.eventBus.publish(new UVEEvent('rdf:load', {
        url: this.config.initialUrl,
        format: this.config.initialFormat || 'text/turtle'
      }));
    }
  }

  /**
   * Clean up and dispose resources
   */
  dispose() {
    this.views.forEach(view => view.dispose());
    this.views = [];
  }
}

================
File: vanilla-core-js.js
================
/**
 * UVE core architecture implementation
 * Vanilla JavaScript version
 */

// Create a namespace for UVE
window.UVE = window.UVE || {};

// Base class for all UVE event types
UVE.UVEEvent = class {
  /**
   * Create a new UVE event
   * @param {string} type - The event type
   * @param {Object} data - Event data
   */
  constructor(type, data = {}) {
    this.type = type;
    this.data = data;
    this.timestamp = Date.now();
  }
};

// Event bus for UVE system-wide messaging
UVE.EventBus = class {
  constructor() {
    this.subscribers = new Map();
  }

  /**
   * Subscribe to events of a specific type
   * @param {string} eventType - Type of event to subscribe to
   * @param {Function} callback - Function to call when event occurs
   * @returns {Function} Unsubscribe function
   */
  subscribe(eventType, callback) {
    if (!this.subscribers.has(eventType)) {
      this.subscribers.set(eventType, new Set());
    }
    
    this.subscribers.get(eventType).add(callback);
    
    // Return unsubscribe function
    return () => {
      const subs = this.subscribers.get(eventType);
      if (subs) {
        subs.delete(callback);
        if (subs.size === 0) {
          this.subscribers.delete(eventType);
        }
      }
    };
  }

  /**
   * Publish an event to all subscribers
   * @param {UVEEvent} event - The event to publish
   */
  publish(event) {
    const subs = this.subscribers.get(event.type);
    if (subs) {
      subs.forEach(callback => {
        try {
          callback(event);
        } catch (error) {
          console.error(`Error in event handler for ${event.type}:`, error);
        }
      });
    }
  }
};

// Base class for all model objects
UVE.ModelObject = class {
  /**
   * Create a new model object
   * @param {EventBus} eventBus - The system event bus
   * @param {string} id - Unique identifier for this object
   */
  constructor(eventBus, id) {
    this.eventBus = eventBus;
    this.id = id;
    this.properties = new Map();
  }

  /**
   * Get a property value
   * @param {string} key - Property name
   * @param {*} defaultValue - Default value if property doesn't exist
   * @returns {*} Property value
   */
  get(key, defaultValue = null) {
    return this.properties.has(key) ? this.properties.get(key) : defaultValue;
  }

  /**
   * Set a property value and notify subscribers
   * @param {string} key - Property name
   * @param {*} value - Property value
   */
  set(key, value) {
    const oldValue = this.get(key);
    this.properties.set(key, value);
    
    this.eventBus.publish(new UVE.UVEEvent('model:property:change', {
      modelId: this.id,
      property: key,
      oldValue,
      newValue: value
    }));
  }
};

// Main UVE application
UVE.UVEApp = class {
  /**
   * Create the UVE application
   * @param {Object} config - Configuration options
   */
  constructor(config = {}) {
    this.config = config;
    this.eventBus = config.eventBus || new UVE.EventBus();
    this.three = config.three || THREE;
    this.modelManager = new UVE.RDFModelManager(this.eventBus);
    this.views = [];
  }

  /**
   * Initialize the application
   * @param {HTMLElement} container - DOM container for Three.js
   */
  initialize(container) {
    // Create scene
    this.scene = new this.three.Scene();
    this.scene.background = new this.three.Color(0xf0f0f0);
    
    // Create camera
    this.camera = new this.three.PerspectiveCamera(
      75, 
      container.clientWidth / container.clientHeight,
      0.1,
      1000
    );
    this.camera.position.z = 10;
    
    // Create renderer
    this.renderer = new this.three.WebGLRenderer({ antialias: true });
    this.renderer.setSize(container.clientWidth, container.clientHeight);
    container.appendChild(this.renderer.domElement);
    
    // Add orbit controls
    this.controls = new this.three.OrbitControls(
      this.camera,
      this.renderer.domElement
    );
    this.controls.enableDamping = true;
    
    // Add ambient light
    const ambientLight = new this.three.AmbientLight(0x404040);
    this.scene.add(ambientLight);
    
    // Add directional light
    const directionalLight = new this.three.DirectionalLight(0xffffff, 0.5);
    directionalLight.position.set(1, 1, 1);
    this.scene.add(directionalLight);
    
    // Animation loop
    const animate = () => {
      requestAnimationFrame(animate);
      this.controls.update();
      this.renderer.render(this.scene, this.camera);
    };
    
    animate();
    
    // Handle window resize
    window.addEventListener('resize', () => {
      this.camera.aspect = container.clientWidth / container.clientHeight;
      this.camera.updateProjectionMatrix();
      this.renderer.setSize(container.clientWidth, container.clientHeight);
    });
  }
};

// Simple RDF Model Manager (placeholder implementation)
UVE.RDFModelManager = class {
  constructor(eventBus) {
    this.eventBus = eventBus;
    this.classMap = new Map();
  }
  
  loadData(data) {
    // In a real implementation, this would parse RDF data
    // For now, we'll just store it directly
    
    if (data.classes) {
      data.classes.forEach(classData => {
        const modelObj = new UVE.ModelObject(this.eventBus, classData.id);
        Object.entries(classData).forEach(([key, value]) => {
          modelObj.set(key, value);
        });
        
        this.classMap.set(classData.id, modelObj);
      });
      
      // Notify that classes have been loaded
      this.eventBus.publish(new UVE.UVEEvent('rdf:classes:extracted', {
        count: this.classMap.size,
        modelManager: this
      }));
    }
  }
  
  getClasses() {
    return Array.from(this.classMap.values());
  }
};

================
File: vanilla-foaf-js.js
================
/**
 * FOAF (Friend of a Friend) example implementation for UVE
 * Vanilla JavaScript version
 */

// Add to UVE namespace
window.UVE = window.UVE || {};

// FOAF example module
UVE.FOAF = {};

/**
 * Create a FOAF dataset with 5 friends
 * @returns {Object} Dataset containing FOAF data
 */
UVE.FOAF.createFOAFExample = function() {
  // Define people data
  const people = [
    {
      id: 'alice',
      label: 'Alice Smith',
      email: 'alice@example.org',
      interests: ['Semantic Web', 'Artificial Intelligence', 'Rock Climbing'],
      knows: ['bob', 'charlie', 'dave']
    },
    {
      id: 'bob',
      label: 'Bob Johnson',
      email: 'bob@example.org',
      interests: ['Machine Learning', 'Photography', 'Chess'],
      knows: ['alice', 'charlie', 'eve']
    },
    {
      id: 'charlie',
      label: 'Charlie Brown',
      email: 'charlie@example.org',
      interests: ['Data Science', 'Piano', 'Hiking'],
      knows: ['alice', 'bob', 'dave']
    },
    {
      id: 'dave',
      label: 'Dave Williams',
      email: 'dave@example.org',
      interests: ['Virtual Reality', 'Guitar', 'Mountain Biking'],
      knows: ['alice', 'charlie']
    },
    {
      id: 'eve',
      label: 'Eve Davis',
      email: 'eve@example.org',
      interests: ['Cryptography', 'Painting', 'Yoga'],
      knows: ['bob']
    }
  ];

  // Create a class for Person
  const personClass = {
    id: 'Person',
    label: 'Person',
    type: 'class',
    description: 'A person in the FOAF network',
    properties: ['name', 'email', 'knows', 'interests']
  };

  // Create relationship types
  const relationships = [];
  
  // Process people and create relationships
  people.forEach(person => {
    person.type = 'Person';
    person.uri = `http://example.org/people/${person.id}`;
    
    // Add knows relationships
    person.knows.forEach(friendId => {
      relationships.push({
        source: person.id,
        target: friendId,
        type: 'knows',
        label: 'knows'
      });
    });
  });
  
  return {
    classes: [personClass, ...people],
    relationships: relationships
  };
};

/**
 * Load the FOAF example into UVE
 * @param {UVE.UVEApp} app - UVE application instance
 */
UVE.FOAF.loadFOAFExample = function(app) {
  // Create the FOAF dataset
  const dataset = UVE.FOAF.createFOAFExample();
  
  // Load it into the model manager
  app.modelManager.loadData(dataset);
  
  // Create spheres for each person
  UVE.FOAF.createPersonSpheres(app, dataset);
  
  // Notify that data has been loaded
  app.eventBus.publish(new UVE.UVEEvent('rdf:loaded', {
    source: 'foaf-example',
    size: dataset.classes.length
  }));
};

/**
 * Create 3D spheres for people in the FOAF example
 * @param {UVE.UVEApp} app - UVE application instance
 * @param {Object} dataset - The FOAF dataset
 */
UVE.FOAF.createPersonSpheres = function(app, dataset) {
  // Filter for only person instances (not the class definition)
  const people = dataset.classes.filter(item => item.type === 'Person');
  
  // Color palette for spheres
  const colors = [0x3498db, 0xe74c3c, 0x2ecc71, 0xf39c12, 0x9b59b6];
  
  // Create a sphere for each person
  people.forEach((person, index) => {
    // Calculate position in a circle
    const angle = (index / people.length) * Math.PI * 2;
    const radius = 8;
    const x = Math.cos(angle) * radius;
    const z = Math.sin(angle) * radius;
    
    // Create geometry
    const geometry = new THREE.SphereGeometry(1.5, 32, 32);
    
    // Create material with unique color
    const material = new THREE.MeshStandardMaterial({
      color: colors[index % colors.length],
      transparent: true,
      opacity: 0.8,
      metalness: 0.2,
      roughness: 0.5
    });
    
    // Create mesh
    const sphere = new THREE.Mesh(geometry, material);
    sphere.position.set(x, 0, z);
    
    // Store metadata
    sphere.userData = {
      personId: person.id,
      name: person.label,
      email: person.email,
      interests: person.interests
    };
    
    // Add to scene
    app.scene.add(sphere);
    
    // Add label above the sphere
    UVE.FOAF.addPersonLabel(app, sphere, person.label);
  });
  
  // Create relationship lines
  UVE.FOAF.createRelationshipLines(app, dataset);
};

/**
 * Add a text label above a person sphere
 * @param {UVE.UVEApp} app - UVE application instance
 * @param {THREE.Mesh} sphere - The person's sphere
 * @param {string} name - Person's name
 */
UVE.FOAF.addPersonLabel = function(app, sphere, name) {
  // Create canvas for text
  const canvas = document.createElement('canvas');
  const context = canvas.getContext('2d');
  canvas.width = 256;
  canvas.height = 128;
  
  // Fill background
  context.fillStyle = 'rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.8)';
  context.fillRect(0, 0, canvas.width, canvas.height);
  
  // Add text
  context.font = 'bold 24px Arial';
  context.fillStyle = '#000000';
  context.textAlign = 'center';
  context.textBaseline = 'middle';
  context.fillText(name, canvas.width / 2, canvas.height / 2);
  
  // Create texture
  const texture = new THREE.CanvasTexture(canvas);
  
  // Create sprite material
  const material = new THREE.SpriteMaterial({
    map: texture,
    transparent: true
  });
  
  // Create sprite
  const sprite = new THREE.Sprite(material);
  sprite.scale.set(2.5, 1.25, 1);
  sprite.position.y = 2.5; // Position above sphere
  
  // Add to sphere
  sphere.add(sprite);
};

/**
 * Create relationship lines between people
 * @param {UVE.UVEApp} app - UVE application instance
 * @param {Object} dataset - The FOAF dataset
 */
UVE.FOAF.createRelationshipLines = function(app, dataset) {
  // Find all sphere objects in the scene
  const spheres = {};
  app.scene.children.forEach(child => {
    if (child.type === 'Mesh' && child.geometry.type === 'SphereGeometry' && child.userData.personId) {
      spheres[child.userData.personId] = child;
    }
  });
  
  // Create a line for each relationship
  dataset.relationships.forEach(rel => {
    const sourceSphere = spheres[rel.source];
    const targetSphere = spheres[rel.target];
    
    if (sourceSphere && targetSphere) {
      // Create points for the line
      const sourcePos = sourceSphere.position.clone();
      const targetPos = targetSphere.position.clone();
      
      // Create geometry
      const geometry = new THREE.BufferGeometry().setFromPoints([sourcePos, targetPos]);
      
      // Create material
      const material = new THREE.LineBasicMaterial({
        color: 0x999999,
        linewidth: 1
      });
      
      // Create line
      const line = new THREE.Line(geometry, material);
      
      // Add to scene
      app.scene.add(line);
    }
  });
};
